Match at 93277:
Negate 
Last Updated: 9/1/2022 (v8.2.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A negate effect undoes active or completed abilities, or completing effects of abilities, and keeps the ability and 
its effects from ever completing. 
●    A negate effect interrupts all specified abilities and prevents them from reactivating. A negate effect also 
prevents targeted abilities from ever being able to activate. 
●    Negating an ability negates all effects of that ability, unless the negate specifies a type of effect it negates, in 
which case it only negates the specified effects. 
●    Negate effects target the cards and abilities that they negate. The card and the ability are targeted separately – if 
either cannot be targeted (such as a protected card or a card without an ability), the other can still be targeted. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the targets must be cards and abilities on cards in play or a set-aside area. 
●    A negate effect that undoes abilities that are active or completed, or completing effects of abilities, is instant, as 
an interrupt. 
●    A negate effect that prevents uncompleted abilities from activating is ongoing, as a prevent. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A negate effect cannot negate itself. 
●    If a negate effect targets an ability that changed the locations of one or more cards, only those cards that remain 
in second location are returned to the original location. Cards that moved from the second location prior to the 
negate remain in their new location. This includes Lost Souls, which often don’t reach the second location by 
game rule. 
●    If a negate effect targets one or more abilities, it negates those abilities simultaneously, such that the abilities 
appear to be negated from most recent to least recent. If a negate effect targets multiple abilities that changed 
the locations of one or more cards, any of those cards that remain in the last location return to the location they 
were in prior to the first negated ability. 
●    A negate effect that targets “abilities” or “all abilities” (as opposed to “special abilities”) on a card will negate 
the star ability of that card, if applicable. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Phrases that are constructed as “Negate a/an/all [card type/card name](s)” are equivalent to “Negate all abilities 
on a/an/all [card type/card name](s)”. 
●    The phrase “has no effect” when referring to cards other than characters means “negate”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
59 
 
Paralyze 
Last Updated: 6/11/2018 (v5.1.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A paralyze effect inflicts a paralyzed condition on a character. 
●    While the paralyzed condition remains, the paralyzed character cannot enter battle. 
●    A paralyze effect is sometimes paired with an ongoing ability, which only has an effect while the character 
remains paralyzed. 
●    A paralyze effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, the paralyzed character 
is no longer paralyzed when the duration is reached. This is not a heal effect. 
●    A paralyze effect targets characters. 
●    Targets must be in a territory. 
●    All paralyze effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A card that is already paralyzed can be targeted by another paralyze effect. The paralyze durations, if they exist, 
do not stack but are counted concurrently. 
●    Any “while paralyzed” effect on a character 