 
 
 
 
Redemption® CCG 
Redemption® Exegesis 
Guide 
 
By Cactus Game Design 
 
Version 11.0.0 
Published 3/13/2026 
 
                                                     
Table of Contents 
 
Special Ability Structure 
Special Abilities 
Abilities 
Modifiers 
Conditions 
Effects 
Targeting 
Duration 
Ability Activation Order 
Modifier Listing 
Cannot be Interrupted 
Cannot be Negated 
Cannot be Prevented 
Instead 
Limit 
Regardless 
Effect Listing 
Activate an Ability 
Activate an Artifact 
Add to Battle 
Band 
Banish (Remove from the game) 
Begin a New Phase 
Bounce (Return to hand) 
Cannot be Ignored 
Capture 
Change Hand Size (Reduce, Increase, or Set Hand Size) 
Choose Opponent (Choose the Blocker/Rescuer) 
Convert (Repent/Fall) 
Copy 
Create a Token 
Decrease 
Discard 
Disease 
Draw 
End the Battle 
Equip 
Exchange 
First Strike 
Gain 
Give (Take) 
Heal 
Hold 
Ignore 
Immune 
Increase 
Interrupt 
Look 
Negate 
Paralyze 
Place 
Play an Enhancement (Play) 
Poison 
Present 
Prevent 
Protect 
Redirect 
Release 
Remove from the Game 
Repeat 
Rescue 
Reserve 
Restrict 
Resurrect 
Return to Hand 
Reveal 
Search 
Set-Aside 
Shuffle 
Side Battle 
Site Access 
Take 
Taunt 
Topdeck 
Toss 
Transfer 
Underdeck 
Use Other Enhancements 
Withdraw (Ignore, Retreat, Return to Territory) 
 
Glossary of Terms Jump to letter (click the letter there to return): 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 
 
 
 
                                                 
5 
 
Special Ability Structure 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0) 
 
 
A special ability is the text over the illustration or above the Scripture verse, but in the same box. 
A special ability has at least one ability or modifier, and may have multiple of either or both. 
An ability is a set of sentences with connected effects within a special ability. An ability has at 
least one effect. 
A modifier is part of a special ability that modifies abilities or effects, but is not an ability itself. 
An effect is part of an ability that acts upon a target. 
 
Special Abilities 
 
A special ability is the text over the illustration or above the Scripture verse, but in the same box. 
Any text between the illustration and the box is an identifier. On some older cards, the text over 
the illustration is entirely or in part an identifier, which has been updated to an identifier by 
errata. If a card gains an ability, it is added to an existing special ability, or becomes the special 
ability of the card if the card was meek. 
 
A special ability consists of at least one ability or modifier, and may have multiple abilities or 
modifiers. 
 
Abilities 
 
An ability is a set of sentences with connected effects within a special ability. The effects may be 
connected by a common target or set of targets, by being paired with a previous effect or by an 
effect needing information about the target(s) of a previous effect. An ability targets the cards its 
effects target. An ability has the type of its effects – an ability with a discard effect is a discard 
ability, etc. An ability that includes a look or search to find a target is a look or search ability, 
even if the look or search effect is not stated within the ability. An ability that includes a reveal 
to prove the validity of a target (or to prove the lack of targets) is not a reveal ability. 
 
If an ability has multiple effects, they are not usually dependent on each other such that being 
unable to carry out one of them makes the player unable to carry out a different one. There are 2 
exceptions: 
•    An effect relies on previous effect(s) being fully carried out. These are usually referred to 
as “cost-benefit” abilities, where the previous effect(s) is the cost to get the benefit of the 
later effect(s). 
•    An effect targets a card (or part of card) and another effect later in the ability relies on the 
initial targeting being successful to target that card (or part of that card). These usually 
use pronouns to refer back to the original target, so the pronouns don’t refer to anything if 
6 
 
there was no original target. 
 
There are three ways an ability can activate its effects: Immediate Effect, Manually Triggered 
Effect and Triggered Effect. 
 
An ability may have effects that activate in different ways. An ability is only instant if it only has 
immediate instant effects, otherwise it is ongoing. An ongoing ability is active if it is checking a 
condition or has a currently active ongoing effect. If an instant ability is prevented from 
activating (the initial activation, not reactivating after an interrupt), it can never activate, even if 
the prevent is later negated. If an ongoing ability is prevented from activating (the initial 
activation, not reactivating after an interrupt), and the prevent is later negated, the ongoing 
ability activates at that point. If an ability is prevented from reactivating (after an interrupt), it 
will reactivate when the prevent is negated. If an ongoing ability is negated and the negation 
ends before the ongoing ability, the ongoing ability will reactivate at that point. If the negation 
ends at the end of a phase, the ongoing ability will reactivate at the beginning of the next phase. 
 
An ability consists of one or more effects, and may have one or more conditions, options, or 
players to carry out some or all the effects. An option is represented by the word “may” and/or 
by a choice between two effects. If an ability uses “may” followed by multiple effects connected 
by “and”, the option applies to each effect separately, such that the player could opt to perform 
some of the effects without having to perform all of them. If an ability uses “may” with an effect 
that has multiple targets (either connected by “and” or a specific number), the option applies to 
the entire effect, not each individual target. If a player or players is mentioned in the ability, the 
effect is carried out by those players; otherwise the controller carries out the effect. 
 
Immediate Effect 
 
An ability with an immediate effect has an effect that is not waiting for an event or the controller 
to elect to activate it. An immediate effect may have an immediate or ongoing check of the game 
state, or no condition at all. When a card with an ability with an immediate effect is played, if 
there is not a condition or an immediate check of the game state, the immediate effects activate 
or not depending on the outcome of any conditions and player choices. When a card with an 
ability with an immediate effect is played, if there is an ongoing check of the game state, it 
activates and begins checking the condition and an ongoing effect is active or not depending on 
the current outcome of the condition. If the ongoing check is tied to a mandatory instant effect, it 
provides a duration for that instant effect – it must be met when the effect activates, and when it 
is no longer met the effect ends. 
 
Manually Triggered Effect 
 
An ability with a manually triggered effect has an effect that the controller elects to use at some 
point after the card it is on was played. A manually triggered effect always has a condition that is 
a constant check of the game state. A manually triggered effect is always instant. When a card 
with an ability with a manually triggered effect is played, the condition activates and begins 
checking the game state. A manually triggered effect may only be activated by the player 
controlling it while no effects are resolving and the ability persists, as described under Duration. 
7 
 
 
The priority to use a manually triggered effect is laid out under Action Priority. 
 
Triggered Effect 
 
An ability with a triggered effect has an effect that is waiting for an event to occur to be 
activated. A triggered effect always has a condition that is checking for an event to happen. 
Triggered effects may be ongoing or instant. When a card with an ability with a triggered effect 
is played, the condition activates and begins checking for the triggering event to happen, and the 
condition is triggered when the event happens. Triggered effects differ from manually triggered 
effects in that triggered effects can activate in response to an event, while manually triggered 
effects have a range in which they can be activated. All players must know (or have the ability to 
know) that the triggering event happened for the triggered effect to activate. 
 
Triggered effects may be optional or mandatory. Optional triggered effects will be designated 
with a “may” or similar wording, while mandatory triggered effects simply describe the outcome 
without giving a choice. If the triggering event deactivates the ability without interrupting or 
negating it, then the triggered effect can still be activated. If the triggering event activates the 
ability, then the triggered effect can still be activated. Otherwise, a triggered effect may only be 
activated by the player controlling it while the ability persists, as described under Duration. 
 
While the condition of a triggered effect is triggered by an event happening, the effect may not 
activate until there are no effects resolving. A triggered effect can be triggered multiple times by 
separate events before it activates, and the effect can be used once for each event unless the event 
is a block (or being blocked), an attack, or the beginning of a battle, with limitations on those 
triggers in their definitions. Abilities with triggered effects that are waiting to activate are 
pending abilities.  
 
The priority to use a triggered effect is laid out under Action Priority. In addition to the criteria 
laid out there, each player must activate all mandatory effects they control in an order of their 
choice before choosing whether to activate the optional effects they control in an order of their 
choice. 
 
Pending 
 
Pending abilities are abilities that are waiting for the effects of other abilities to resolve. Effects 
are resolving when they are activating or completing. Abilities with triggered effects that are 
waiting for other effects to resolve are pending effect activation. Interrupted abilities that are 
waiting for other effects to resolve are pending reactivation. 
 
Modifiers 
 
A modifier is part of a special ability that modifies abilities or effects. Modifiers are not 
themselves abilities, but alter the behavior of abilities or effects. Whether a modifier targets an 
ability or effect depends on the type of modifier. If a modifier is granted to abilities or effects on 
8 
 
other cards, the modifier persists through the end of the current phase by default. Since modifiers 
are not abilities, they cannot be targeted by interrupt, prevent or negate effects. 
 
If a modifier targets an ability, it modifies all parts of the ability unless some types of abilities 
are specified to have or not have the modifier. If a modifier targets (or specifically doesn’t target) 
a type of ability (“X abilities”), then it does not modify any other effects an ability might have. A 
modifier that targets “discard abilities” would modify the discard effect of an ability with “negate 
and discard” effects, but does not modify the negate effect. If the modifier targets the ability, 
then all parts except the negate effect would be modified. If the modifier only targets the discard 
effect, then only the discard effect is modified. 
 
If a modifier is activated by a trigger condition, it applies immediately and does not have to wait 
for other abilities to resolve, like an effect. 
 
A modifier may have one or more conditions included as part of the modifier. 
 
Conditions 
 
Events and Game States 
 
The game state is all the information available about the game - the number of cards in 
hands/decks/territories, which cards are in play/discard piles, etc. An event is an effect (part of an 
ability or a game action) that potentially changes the game state, but is not part of the game state. 
 
Entering battle, being put in play, drawing, etc. are events. Being in battle, being in play, how 
many cards/draw abilities you’ve drawn/used, etc. are part of the game state. 
 
Colon 
 
Generally, the colon means “while X is occurring” when following a look or reveal effect, and 
“while X is met” when following other effects, where X is the effect in the former and the 
outcome of the effect in the latter. More specifically: 
•    If part of the ability preceding the colon is a look or reveal effect, and part of the ability 
succeeding the colon is an immediate instant effect, then the colon means “while X is 
occurring”, where X is the ability preceding the colon and the abilities following the 
colon are the paired abilities of X. 
•    If the part of the ability preceding the colon is not a look or reveal effect and part of the 
ability succeeding the colon is a mandatory instant effect that cannot have a duration, the 
colon means “if X is met”, where X is the part of the game state produced by the effect 
preceding the colon. 
•    Otherwise, the colon means “while X is met”, where X is the part of the game state 
produced by the effect preceding the colon. 
•    One colon can have multiple meanings, if the effects after the colon meet different 
criteria. 
9 
 
 
When a colon follows a look or reveal effect, the condition applies until succeeding effects have 
targeted all of the targets of the look or reveal, or until the end of the sentence if succeeding 
effects do not target all of the targets of the look or reveal. While the condition from the colon 
applies, the default location for targets of effects is the location looked at or revealed. When a 
colon does not follow a look or reveal effect, the condition applies to all of the special ability that 
succeeds it, except modifiers that only target the card the colon is on. 
 
Conditional Phrases and Ability Classes 
 
Each phrase that is checking the game state or for events is associated with one or more types of 
effects or modifiers that follow the phrase: 
•    “If [event]” or “when [event]” preceding an effect or modifier is an ongoing check for 
that event to happen, and indicates a triggered effect or modifier. “If [event]” succeeding 
an effect or modifier, or as part of alternate targeting, allows a player to perform that 
event. 
•    A check for an event occurring due to a player or ability is satisfied by a game rule 
triggered by that player or ability. 
•    Any phrase that indicates a specific time (“after battle”, “on return”, etc.) is an ongoing 
check for that event, and indicates a triggered effect. 
•    “If [game state]” is an immediate check of the game state, and indicates an immediate 
effect or a modifier. 
•    “If you do” is a check that you fully carried out effects earlier in the ability. 
•    “If you do not” is a check that you did not fully carry out effects earlier in the ability, for 
any reason. 
•    “If you cannot” is a check that you could not carry out one or more effects earlier in the 
ability. 
•    “Otherwise” is a check that a condition earlier in the ability failed. 
•    “While [game state]” or “during [game state]” is an ongoing check of the game state, and 
indicates 1) a manually triggered effect if there is an optional instant effect, 2) an instant 
effect with a duration if there is a mandatory instant effect, or 3) an ongoing effect or 
modifier that updates its targeting or status as the status of the condition changes. 
•    “Each [phase]” is an ongoing check of the game state, and indicates a manually triggered 
effect that can or must be used exactly once in that phase. “During [phase]” is an ongoing 
check of the game state, and indicates a manually triggered effect that can be used 
multiple times in that phase. 
•    “At any time” and “when holder chooses” are ongoing checks of the game state and 
indicate an ability with a manually triggered effect. 
•    An optional instant effect with a usage limit other than a per game usage limit is a 
manually triggered effect that can be activated as long as the usage limit has not been met 
in the specified timeframe. 
•    X defined in an identifier is an ongoing check of the game state, and is updating the value 
of X as it changes, if applicable. X defining a number of targets is static when the targets 
are declared, X defining a value that targets have is dynamic and updates as X changes. 
•    “... unless [game state]” is a check of the game state that matches the type of effect or 
10 
 
modifier it follows - ongoing for ongoing, instant for instant. 
 
Ongoing checks of the game state are fluid and can update the effects of the abilities they are part 
of even while other effects are resolving, but any manually triggered effects cannot be activated 
until no effects are resolving. Ongoing checks for events cannot activate the triggered effect until 
no effects are activating or completing. 
 
If any ongoing check of the game state ceases to be met for any reason, then the manually 
triggered effect can no longer be activated, the duration of an instant effect ends, or the ongoing 
effect or modifier ceases to be active. 
 
Effects 
 
An effect is part of an ability that acts upon a target. Targets are usually cards, abilities, or 
players. 
 
There are two types of effects: Instant and Ongoing. 
 
Effects are always in one of three states: activating, active, or completing. The activation of an 
effect includes the initial targeting. The completion of an effect includes carrying out the effect 
on the targets, if that has not already been done. An ongoing effect is active and carrying out its 
effect between its activation and completion. Effects that are activating or completing are 
resolving. 
 
Instant Effects 
 
An instant effect is an effect that activates, declares its targets and completes almost instantly. 
Any instant effect that completed in a previous phase, even during the same turn, cannot be 
interrupted or negated. Instant effects can only be undone in the phase they completed. 
 
Limitations on instant effects targeting Lost Souls are described in Targeting. 
 
Limitations on activating instant effects are described in Activate. 
 
Ongoing Effects 
 
Ongoing effects are effects that activate, declare a target and continue affecting the targets for 
longer than an instant. Ongoing effects are not completed until they reach their duration. An 
automatically targeted ongoing effect may update its targets until it completes. An ongoing effect 
that has activated but not completed is active. An ongoing effect that persists through multiple 
phases can be interrupted or negated in each phase in which it is active. If an ongoing effect is 
negated and the negation ends before the ongoing ability, the ongoing ability will reactivate at 
that point. If the negation ends at the end of a phase, the ongoing ability will reactivate at the 
beginning of the next phase. Any results of an ongoing effect from a prior phase cannot be 
interrupted or negated, only the results in the current phase. 
11 
 
 
Targeting 
 
Referencing vs. Targeting 
 
If a card mentions card names or card types as part of a condition (including unity or advantage) 
or count but does not perform an action on those cards, the card is referencing those card types or 
cards with that name, not targeting them. If a card references cards or card types, it is looking for 
all cards meeting those criteria on the playing surface, including set-aside areas, unless other 
locations are specified on the card. 
 
Targeting Cards by Name and Self-Targeting 
 
If a card references or targets a card name that is also an identifier, the reference or target is to 
the identifier, not the card name. 
 
If a card references or targets the name of a card other than itself, the named card can be in 
whatever default location is specified on the named card, unless otherwise specified on the 
referencing or targeting card. If the named card is a character, there may be multiple characters 
as described in duplicate cards. 
 
If a character references or targets all or part of its name, and it represents a person with the 
referenced or targeted name, the reference or target is to itself. 
 
If a card targets “this card”, it is targeting itself, and can target the card in the location where it 
activated. 
 
If a card targets “this [card type]”, it is targeting itself, but it must be the specified type to be a 
valid target, and can target the card in the location where it activated. 
 
If a card references or targets its name, the card functions as if the reference or target is replaced 
with “this card” unless the ability meets either of the following criteria: 
•    The reference or target is potentially to multiple cards. 
•    The wording of the card excludes itself from the target or reference. 
This includes situations where a card copies the reference or target of the copied card’s name, so 
the copied ability functions as if the name was replaced with “this card”. In all other situations, 
the reference or target is to any card that fits that name. 
 
Modifier Targeting 
 
Modifiers that target abilities on the cards they are on, or the contents of cards they are on, can 
target those cards in the location in which the modifier activated. 
 
12 
 
Modifiers that target abilities on specific card types can only modify abilities on cards in play or 
a set-aside area, unless otherwise specified in the modifier. 
 
Effect Targeting 
 
The default locations of targets for effects are as follows: 
•    Activate an Ability, Interrupt, Negate, Prevent: Abilities on cards in play or a set-aside 
area 
•    Activate an Artifact: In hand or Artifact pile 
•    Add to Battle, Band, Present: In hand or a territory 
•    Begin a New Phase: Current phase 
•    Change Hand Size, Restrict: A player 
•    Choose Opponent: In opponent’s territory 
•    Draw: Top of deck 
•    End the Battle: Current battle 
•    Equip: Enhancements in hand and characters in play 
•    Hold: Characters in hand, play or a set-aside area, Artifacts in hand or Artifact pile, 
Enhancements in hand 
•    Paralyze: In a territory 
•    Play: In hand 
•    Redirect: Cards or abilities on cards in battle 
•    Repeat: Previous abilities on the card 
•    Rescue: Lost Souls in opponent’s Land of Bondage or humans in play 
•    Resurrect: In a discard pile 
•    Set-Aside: In play 
•    Side Battle: In play or hand 
•    Toss: Enhancements as they are played and characters in battle 
•    Transfer: In territory 
•    Withdraw: In the Field of Battle 
•    Look, Reveal, Search, Taunt: No default target 
•    All Other Effects*: In play or a set-aside area 
*Banish, Bounce, Capture, Convert, Copy, Discard, Exchange, First Strike, Gain, Heal, 
Ignore, Immune and Protect, Increase and Decrease, Place, Poison and Disease, Release, 
Reserve, Shuffle, Site Access, Take and Give, Topdeck and Underdeck, and Use Other 
Enhancements 
 
If an effect targets a card in a location that belongs to a player, and does not specify that it 
target’s a specific player’s location, or “a”, “any” or “all” of that location, then the target must be 
in the location belonging to the player carrying out the effect. 
 
Targeting the next or last card played targets those cards based on when they were played in 
relation to the initial activation of targeting effect, regardless of the current location of those 
cards, but can only target cards played in the current phase. “Next” is the first qualifying card 
played after the targeting effect activates, and “last” is the most recent qualifying card played 
before the targeting effect activates. Effects that use “next” and “last” cannot update targets. 
13 
 
 
An ability that has multiple effects that act on targets on the same cards performs those effects 
sequentially, not simultaneously. If an earlier effect renders the target an invalid target for a later 
effect, the later effect does nothing. 
 
If an effect (except a draw or play effect) targets one or more cards in a deck to move to another 
location (except a location in play), reveal the card(s) before removing them from the deck. If 
any are Lost Souls, put them in their owner's Land of Bondage. The remaining targets (if any) 
are moved to the new location. If all of the targets are removed from the deck, the effect is 
considered to have fully completed. 
 
The following scenarios have special rules about cards being valid targets for instant effects: 
•    Lost Souls are only valid targets if the ability specifically states it targets Lost Souls. 
•    Captured characters are only valid targets if the ability uses “captured” or some variation 
thereof to describe the target. Captured characters can also be targeted as Lost Souls, if 
applicable. 
•    Face down cards are only valid targets if the ability specifically states it targets face down 
cards or inactive Artifacts. 
Cards that fall under any of the above scenarios are also valid targets if an ability targets all cards 
in a location in that scenario or if an ability targets all cards of their card type. 
 
If an ability has conditions and durations such that its ongoing effects end and activate repeatedly 
(such as an ability that targets “each upkeep”), the player controlling that ability can opt to keep 
the same target(s) each time the ongoing effects activate without having to restate them each 
time. If any of the targets are removed between activations, the player can select replacement 
targets for them, but they are not required to select any. 
 
A manually targeted effect is any effect that allows a player a choice of targets. An automatically 
targeted effect is any effect that targets the entirety of a location, or the “next” or “last” of 
something. An effect that has targets of “all (except 1)” is considered manually targeted for 
activation and automatically targeted thereafter, since the exception is declared at the initial 
targeting, but cannot change. 
 
All effects select their targets when they initially activate. If an effect allows a player to select a 
dynamic number of targets, the number does not update if the effect is interrupted and 
reactivates. Ongoing effects that automatically target update their targets as new ones become 
available while they remain ongoing, but do not retarget their current targets unless they are 
replayed or the ongoing effect is reactivating. 
 
If an effect specifies more targets than there are valid targets, the effect can still be carried out by 
targeting all of the valid targets. 
 
If a card has an option between mandatory effects, the player selecting between those effects 
cannot select an option without a valid target unless none of them have a valid target. If one of 
those effects includes a search, the searchable location is a valid target as long as it has at least 
one card, regardless of a valid target for the search. 
14 
 
 
If a manually targeted effect is interrupted, when it reactivates it targets the same cards as 
initially selected. If an automatically targeted effect is interrupted, it updates targets when it 
reactivates. If an interrupted manually targeted effect is redirected, the targets can be changed by 
the player redirecting the effect. 
 
If an instant effect or a manually targeted ongoing effect is prevented from activating, then it 
cannot select a target. Even if the effect that stopped it from activating is later negated, the effect 
still cannot activate because no target was initially selected and the target cannot change. 
 
If an automatically targeted ongoing effect is prevented from activating, but the effect that 
stopped it from activating is later negated, then the effect activates and updates targets at that 
moment. 
 
Duration 
 
Many special abilities have a component that lasts for longer than a simple instant effect, 
requiring an upper bound on how long the special ability persists. If none of the following apply, 
the upper bound is the end of the phase.  
 
Some effects have their own duration limitations that override any other duration listed below.  
 
If a special ability targets a card and defines a duration based on the result of that targeting, the 
special ability persists until that result is changed. This provides an upper bound on any other 
duration. 
 
If a special ability specifies a specific time for the duration, such as this turn, 1 round, etc., the 
special ability persists until that time has elapsed. 
 
If a special ability specifies that it remains active “while this card remains in play”, or some 
similar phrasing about the card leaving where it was played, the special ability persists until the 
card leaves where it was played. 
 
If the card is a territory class character played in a territory, the special ability persists until the 
character leaves territory. 
 
If the card is a Site (except a rainbow Site), Artifact, Fortress or Lost Soul, the special ability 
persists until the card leaves where it was played or the Artifact is deactivated. 
 
If a special ability or identifier specifies a duration that is not covered above, the special ability 
requires another duration as the upper bound. If none of the above durations are present, the 
upper bound is the end of the phase. 
 
If more than one of the above apply, the upper bound is any duration specifically noted as an 
upper bound, or the duration that would last the longest if there is no specific upper bound, so the 
15 
 
upper bound can change as the game progresses. A special ability with multiple durations 
persists until the upper bound has elapsed, but its effectiveness may vary as the shorter durations 
change. 
 
                                                 
16 
 
Ability Activation Order 
 
When one or more characters are played in battle, the abilities on all of the characters activate as 
a group, rather than individually, in the order below. If any ability plays other cards, including 
other characters, only the abilities up to the current step activate at that time, and any that fall in 
a future step are delayed until that step. 
1. Verify the rescuing/taunting/attacking/blocking/defending status of the characters in battle and 
the players involved in the battle. 
2. Activate all abilities in the order written on the card EXCEPT those with effects that move a 
character to a battle. 
3. Activate all gained abilities in the order gained EXCEPT those with effects that move a 
character to a battle. 
4. Activate all abilities on any equipped weapons EXCEPT those with effects that move a 
character to a battle. 
5. Activate all abilities with effects that move a character into the same side of battle. 
6. Verify the begins a battle/blocked status of the characters that are/were in battle and the 
players involved in the battle. 
7. Activate all abilities with effects that move a character into the opposite side of battle. 
8. Activate all abilities with side battle effects. 
9. Activate all pending abilities with triggered effects, following the order laid out under Action 
Priority in the Glossary. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
17 
 
Modifier Listing 
 
Cannot be Interrupted 
Last Updated: 6/21/2021 (v7.1.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    The cannot be interrupted modifier modifies an ability, making it so that the modified ability cannot be 
affected by any interrupt or negate effect activated after the card the modified ability is on is played. The 
modified ability can still be targeted by the interrupt or negate effect. 
●    An ability cannot be modified by cannot be interrupted retroactively; it has cannot be interrupted when the 
card it is on is played or not at all. A cannot be interrupted modifier on a card that is met by actions performed 
during the playing of that card is considered to be modifying the abilities of that card when it is played. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When a sentence in a special ability includes the cannot be interrupted modifier and does not specify what 
abilities the cannot be interrupted modifier modifies, it modifies all abilities on the card that appear before the 
sentence containing the modifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
18 
 
Cannot be Negated 
Last Updated: 6/21/2021 (v7.1.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    The cannot be negated modifier modifies an ability, making it so that the modified ability cannot be affected by 
any interrupt, prevent or negate effect. The modified ability can still be targeted by the interrupt, prevent or 
negate effect. 
●    An ability cannot be modified by cannot be negated retroactively; it has cannot be negated when the card it is 
on is played or not at all. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    All abilities on Dominants are cannot be negated. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When a sentence in a special ability includes the cannot be negated modifier and does not specify what abilities 
the cannot be negated modifier modifies, it modifies all abilities on the card that appear before the sentence 
containing the modifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
19 
 
Cannot be Prevented 
Last Updated: 1/27/2020 (v7.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    The cannot be prevented modifier modifies an ability, making it so that the modified ability cannot be affected 
by any prevent or negate effect activated before the card the modified ability is on is played. The modified 
ability can still be targeted by the prevent or negate effect. 
●    An ability cannot be modified by cannot be prevented retroactively; it has cannot be prevented when the card it 
is on is played or not at all. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    An ability that has been modified by a cannot be prevented modifier can be interrupted. Once interrupted, it 
can then be prevented. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When a sentence in a special ability includes the cannot be prevented modifier and does not specify what 
abilities the cannot be prevented modifier modifies, it modifies all abilities on the card that appear before the 
sentence containing the modifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
20 
 
Instead 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    The instead modifier allows an ability to replace an effect or event with a new effect. 
●    The instead modifier indicates an effect which replaces an activated effect or event. It does not undo the effect, 
as with a prevent or negate, but instead replaces the outcome such that the original effect never took place, and 
the new effect activates instead. 
●    Most instances of the instead modifier are written as “If X happens, do Y instead”. The trigger occurs when 
“X” happens, and replaces “X” with the new effect, “Y”. “X” is considered to not have been activated at all, and 
“Y” happens in its place. 
●    Other instances of the instead modifier are written as “Do X. Opponent may do Y instead.”. When you attempt 
to do “X”, the opponent has the option to replace it with “Y”. If they do, “X” is considered to not have been 
activated at all, and “Y” happens in its place. 
●    If an instead modifier does not indicate a new target or targets for the new effects, then the new effect is applied 
to same cards targeted by the original effect. 
●    The replacing effect is affected by instead when the card it is on is played. 
●    The replaced effect cannot be affected by instead retroactively; the instead modifier must trigger during the 
activation of the replaced effect. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    When the triggering event occurs, the triggered effect with the instead activates immediately, inserting itself 
before any additional abilities or effects complete. Rules for handling scenarios where the triggering event also 
causes Special Initiative are described in Special Initiative. 
●    An instead may have conditions that indicate only some of the cards have the new effect applied. For example, 
if a card says “… blue Heroes that would be discarded are returned to territory instead”, and a mixture of 
Heroes are discarded from battle, the blue Heroes have the withdraw effect applied, while other Heroes have 
the discard effect applied. 
●    If a card is immune to or protected from the new effect, the original effect is still applied. If a card is immune 
to or protected from the original effect, the card is not affected at all. Example: “… blue Heroes that would be 
discarded are returned to territory instead”, with two other active effects: “Protect N.T. Heroes from withdraw 
abilities” and “Protect O.T. Heroes from discard abilities”. Because the blue N.T. Heroes are protected from 
withdraw, they are discarded as normal. Because the blue O.T. Heroes are protected from discard, they are 
unaffected, and there is nothing to replace with the withdraw effect. 
●    If the new effect is prevented, or otherwise cannot be completed in its entirety, then the original effect is still 
applied. If the new effect activates and is later negated, the act of insteading does not get undone, as the new 
effect was still applied initially through instead. 
●    If a single card uses instead to apply two or more effects to the same group of cards, the combination of applied 
effects satisfies the cost for that card. Example: if Herod’s Temple (Di) would discard more than one card from 
deck, and at least one is a Lost Soul put in play “instead”, the combined total of discarded cards and Lost Souls 
put in play count toward the total required by Herod’s Temple. However, if the card discarded from hand has a 
different effect applied “instead” by a different card, the ability is not properly resolved. 
 
 
 
21 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Abilities that describe a potential end of battle condition (ex: “If defeated”, “If character defeats”, “If rescue 
attempt fails”, “Regardless of battle outcome”, etc.) and a triggered effect that targets the cards affected by the 
potential end of battle condition have an implied instead in which the triggered effect replaces the potential end 
of battle condition if the condition is met. 
●    The replacing effect can be negated, as it is modified by instead and not part of the instead itself. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
22 
 
Limit 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A limit modifier modifies an ability, placing limits on how often the ability can be used or capping a variable 
defined in the identifier. Once an ability has reached the usage limit, it cannot be used until the limit is reset. 
●    A limit that caps a variable provides a maximum value for the use of the variable in an ability. 
●    Usage limits are counted separately for each player, by which player controls the card when a use happens. If a 
card with a usage limit specifies a player, it applies to the pair of players consisting of the controller and the 
specified player. 
●    An ability cannot be modified by a limit retroactively; it has a limit when the card it is on is played or not at all. 
●    The modification from a usage limit lasts until the end of timeframe for the limit, or until the card is reset to 
face value if no timeframe is specified. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    All cards (except Lost Souls) that share a name and the same usage limit count towards all usage limits on those 
cards. Lost Souls that share a verse or identifier and the same usage limit count towards all usage limits on those 
Lost Souls. 
●    If an Artifact or Site has a usage limit that is “per game” or with no specified end, it is discarded after the last 
use. If an Artifact or Site with a “per game” usage limit is played after the limit has been reached, it is 
immediately discarded. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The modifying of an ability with a limit is not directly targeted by an interrupt, prevent or negate effect, as it is 
not an ability. If the modified ability is negated or interrupted and does not reactivate it does not count against 
the usage limit. 
●    An ability has a capping limit when the card it is on is played, but the value of the variable may change to be 
able to apply (or not apply) the limit while the card remains in play or a set-aside area. 
●    The phrase “Limit X per territory” is a restrict effect, not a limit modifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
23 
 
Regardless 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    The regardless modifier modifies an ability or effect, making it so that the modified ability or effect can include 
among its possible targets any cards that normally could not be targeted due to the condition that is mentioned. 
●    Most instances of the regardless modifier are written as “regardless of X abilities”, where “X” is a condition or 
effect that would normally stop targeting. For example, the phrase “regardless of protect abilities” allows the 
modified ability to target any card that is immune or protected, even though it normally cannot. 
●    Other instances of the regardless modifier are written as “regardless of brigade”, where it modifies an ability 
where brigade is a limitation on targets, such as play an Enhancement or add to battle (for Enhancements). 
●    An ability or effect cannot be modified by regardless retroactively; it is regardless when the card it is on is 
played or not at all. 
●    The modification from regardless lasts until the end of the current phase. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When it appears as part of a use other Enhancements ability, the phrase “regardless of brigade” is redundant 
and is not a regardless modifier. 
●    The phrase “regardless of battle outcome” defines an alternate condition for a card, and is normally an instead 
modifier, not a regardless modifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
24 
 
Effect Listing 
 
Activate an Ability 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 1/27/2020 (v7.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An activate an ability effect activates an ability at a time it can not normally be activated. 
●    An activate an ability effect targets the ability to be activated. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be on cards in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All activate an ability effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Negating an activate an ability effect does not negate the activated ability. To negate the activated ability, the 
negate must target the activated ability. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
25 
 
Activate an Artifact 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An activate an Artifact effect activates an Artifact in a location they control during a phase other than the 
Preparation Phase or an additional time during the Preparation Phase. 
●    If an Artifact is activated on another card and the underlying card is relocated, the activated Artifact is generally 
relocated (regardless of protect effects) to the same location that the underlying card is relocated to and remains 
there. The exception to this rule is: 
1     When a character is captured or rescued, all Artifacts activated on that character are discarded. 
●    An activate an Artifact effect targets the Artifact that is activated. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in the Artifact pile or hand of the player carrying out the activate an 
Artifact effect. If the target is in the Artifact pile, it must be inactive. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target is activated on the Artifact pile or any legal location for that Artifact. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, there is a limit of one activated Artifact on each legal location. If an activate an 
Artifact effect activates an Artifact in a location that was already at its limit for active Artifacts, an Artifact 
already there is deactivated before the new Artifact is activated. 
●    All activate an Artifact effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If an Artifact is activated on a card rather than on the Artifact pile, it returns to the Artifact pile when 
deactivated. 
●    If an activate an Artifact effect activates an Artifact, Covenant or Curse in a location with a hold effect that 
targets Artifacts, Covenants or Curses, that Artifact, Covenant or Curse must be a valid target of the hold effect 
to be a valid target of the activate an Artifact effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
26 
 
Add to Battle 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 8/23/2016 (v4.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An add to battle effect moves cards into the current battle and activates their special abilities. 
●    An add to battle effect targets the cards that are to be moved into battle. 
●    A player can only carry out an add to battle effect to add cards to the side of battle they control. 
●    The targets of the add to battle effect are moved into battle under control of the player carrying out the add to 
battle effect, on their side of the battle. If that player does not have permanent control of the card, then they 
have temporary control until the card leaves battle. 
●    An add to battle effect only targets characters, Enhancements (including Covenants or Curses as 
Enhancements) and Sites. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in a territory or the hand of the player carrying out the add to battle 
effect. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be of matching alignment to the card with the add to battle effect. 
●    All add to battle effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Special rules about characters entering battle are described in Enters Battle. 
●    If an add to battle effect is negated, the characters it moved into battle from a hand or territory return to the 
territory of the player with permanent control. 
●    When an add to battle effect adds multiple cards into battle, the cards are added as one group. The abilities on 
the characters in that group activate as described in the Ability Activation Order. The abilities on the other cards 
in the group activate in an order of their controller’s choosing. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    An add to battle effect is not a band effect unless it exclusively adds one or more characters to a side of the 
battle where at least one other character of matching alignment is always present. 
●    Cards cannot be added to a battle that has not begun or a battle that is in battle resolution. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
27 
 
Band 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A band effect moves a character into battle to assist another character that is already in the battle. 
●    A band effect targets the cards that are to be moved into battle. 
●    A band effect can only target characters of matching alignment. 
●    When a character is banded into battle, the player controlling that side of the battle controls the character. If that 
player does not have permanent control of the character, then they have temporary control until the character 
leaves battle. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in a territory or the hand of the player carrying out the band effect. 
●    All band effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Special rules about characters entering battle are described in Enters Battle. 
●    If a band effect is negated, the characters it moved into battle from a hand or territory return to the territory of 
the player with permanent control. 
●    When a band effect moves multiple characters into battle, the characters are moved in as one group, and their 
abilities activate as described in the Ability Activation Order. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Characters in the Field of Battle are not valid targets for band effects, since they are already in a battle assisting 
a character. 
●    The phrase “add to battle” when used to exclusively move a character to a side of the battle where at least one 
other character of matching alignment is always present is a band effect. 
●    Copy and convert effects that change a non-character card into a character are not band effects. 
●    Abilities that move a second character into the battle should be played as if they move an additional character 
into the battle. 
●    The phrases “band with” and “join the battle” both mean “band to”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
28 
 
Banish 
Last Updated:  
Released: 5/10/2017 (v4.1.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A banish effect moves a card from its current location to its owner’s banish pile. 
●    A banish effect targets the cards that are to be banished. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All banish effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrases “Remove [card/card type] from the game” or “Remove from the game [card/card type]” mean 
“Banish [card/card type]”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
29 
 
Begin a New Phase 
Last Updated:  
Released: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A begin a new phase effect restarts the current phase of the turn or returns to a previous phase of the turn. 
●    During all phases except the Battle Phase, the phase restart is immediate. 
●    During the Battle Phase, if the Field of Battle is empty and the battle is not already in battle resolution, the 
phase restart is immediate, skipping or suspending battle resolution for all battles. If the Field of Battle is not 
empty or the current battle is already in battle resolution, battle resolution must be completed for all battles 
before the phase restart. 
●    A begin a new phase effect targets the current phase. 
●    All begin a new phase effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Unless a begin a new phase effect specifies that the previous phase resumes, the game progresses to the next 
phase of the turn at the end of the new phase. 
●    A begin a new phase effect that begins a new battle is optional, since the Battle Phase begins with the active 
player putting a character in battle and the begin a new phase effect does not target a character. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrase “restart the current phase” is a begin a new phase effect. 
●    The phrase “begin a new turn” is a begin a new phase effect that returns to the Draw Phase, rather than 
restarting the current phase. 
●    The phrase “begin a new rescue attempt” is a begin a new phase effect, but the restarted Battle Phase must 
begin as a rescue attempt and not a battle challenge. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
30 
 
Bounce 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 1/27/2020 (v7.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A bounce effect moves a card from the playing surface to its owner’s hand. 
●    A bounce effect targets the cards that are to be returned to hand. 
●    A bounce effect that targets “all Enhancements” (or “all good Enhancements” or “all evil Enhancements”) from 
battle targets all Enhancements played on the same side of the battle as the card with the bounce effect. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All bounce effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If any cards that follow a bounced card cannot enter that hand due to the hand limit, they are treated differently 
depending on the card type. Artifacts are returned to the Artifact pile face down, characters are returned to 
territory, and all other cards are discarded. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
31 
 
Cannot be Ignored 
 
 
See Immune and Protect 
(“Cannot be ignored” means “protect character from withdraw effects”, since ignore was merged with withdraw) 
 
                                                 
32 
 
Capture 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A capture effect transforms a character into a captured character and moves it to a different location where it is 
held captive. Heroes become captured Heroes and Evil Characters become captured Evil Characters. 
●    Permanent control of captured characters transfers to the player that receives the captured characters. 
●    When a character is captured, all cards equipped to, cards placed on and Artifacts activated on that character 
are discarded. 
●    A capture effect targets the characters that are to be captured. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets are moved to the Land of Bondage of the player carrying out the capture 
effect. 
●    All capture effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrase “treat as a Lost Soul” is a clarification of the game rule that applies to captured characters that are in 
a Land of Bondage, not an ability. 
●    The phrase “take prisoner” means “capture”. 
●    If a capture effect captures the target to a location, that location must exist or the capture effect cannot target 
anything. If the location exists but the card cannot be captured to it, the capture effect captures the target to the 
default location. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
33 
 
Change Hand Size 
Last Updated: 5/7/2019 (v6.0.0) 
Released: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A change hand size effect alters the maximum end-turn hand size allowed for a player by increasing it, 
decreasing it, or setting a new maximum. By game rule, the maximum starts at 8. 
●    If a change hand size effect sets a new maximum end-turn hand-size as opposed to increasing or decreasing it 
by a specific amount, then the size it sets is the new maximum, regardless of any other change hand size effects 
which may already be in effect. 
●    If a change hand size effect increases or decreases the maximum end-turn hand-size by a specific amount, it 
sets the new maximum by altering the current maximum by the amount of the increase or decrease. 
●    A change hand size effect targets the players that are to have their hand size changed. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, change hand size effects last until the end of the phase in which they are activated. 
●    All change hand size effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    A change hand size effect does not alter the maximum number of cards allowed in a hand at any time (found 
under Hand), it only changes the maximum allowed at the end of the targeted player’s Discard Phase. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
34 
 
Choose Opponent 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A choose opponent effect allows a player to select the character their opponent uses in battle against them. 
●    A choose opponent effect used before a character is presented forces the opponent to use the chosen character. 
●    A choose opponent effect used while there is an opposing character in battle removes all opposing characters 
from battle and puts the chosen character in battle. 
●    A choose opponent effect targets the characters to be removed from battle and the character to be put into 
battle, as well as the opponent if no character has yet been presented, restricting them from being able to present 
an initial character of their choosing. If any of the attempted character targets are not valid targets, the effect 
does nothing to any of the targets. 
●    Characters removed from battle by a choose opponent effect are returned to the territory of the player with 
permanent control of the card. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the character targeted to be put into battle must be in the opponent’s territory. 
●    All choose opponent effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    If a choose opponent effect used before the initial character is presented is negated, the defender has the 
opportunity to present a new character unless they control a character on their side of battle. 
●    If a choose opponent effect targets a character to be opposite a specific character, by name or some other 
descriptor, that specific character must be in battle or the effect does nothing. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
35 
 
Convert 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A convert effect changes one or more characteristics of a card. These changes may include alignment, type, or 
brigade. 
●    A converted card generally retains its special abilities and identifiers. The only characteristics changed or 
gained are those specified by the convert effect. 
●    Special abilities on Heroes (and good weapons) that have been converted to Evil Characters (and evil weapons) 
can never activate. 
●    Special abilities on Evil Characters (and evil weapons) that have been converted to Heroes (and good weapons) 
may activate, except for abilities that specifically target Heroes when the card is at face value. 
●    Special abilities on territory class characters that have been converted to a different alignment while in territory 
only remain active if they meet the criteria to activate above. If the territory class character is converted back to 
its original alignment, the special ability is active again, but instant abilities will not reactivate. 
●    Converted characters retain their identifier(s) unless the identifier is alignment specific. Heretic, magician, 
Pharisee, prophet, Sadducee and thief on Evil Characters do not convert when they become a Hero. Disciple, 
martyr and missionary on Heroes do not convert when they become an Evil Character. Angel on Heroes 
becomes demon when they convert to an Evil Character. 
●    A convert effect targets the cards that are to be converted. 
●    A convert effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, the converted character 
reverts to the characteristics that were changed by the convert effect when the duration is reached. The 
reversion is not a convert effect, and any characteristics that were not changed by the convert effect retain any 
changes that may have been made while converted. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless a non-human target is specified, targets must be human. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets are converted to the opposite alignment of their current alignment.  
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets are converted to any brigade that is a legal brigade for the new alignment of 
the card. If a convert effect does not change the alignment of the card, then the new alignment is the same as the 
current alignment. 
●    All convert effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a warrior equipped with a weapon is converted, the weapon is automatically converted with the character. It 
converts to a matching brigade and remains on the character. 
●    If the active identity of a dual icon card has a convert effect that converts to the name or type of the inactive 
identity, the convert effect swaps the active identity of the card. 
●    If the active identity of a dual icon card is converted by a convert effect other than its own effect, it retains the 
characteristics of the active identity that are not changed and does not swap identities. 
●    If a convert effect changes a card to or within the face value alignment of the active identity, it is treated as 
though it has not been converted from that alignment for the purposes of identifiers and ability activation. 
●    If a convert effect changes the alignment of a character in battle, then that character returns to the territory of 
the player with permanent control as a response to the convert effect. 
●    If a convert effect allows a player to select the brigade of the card being converted, then that player must select 
an existing brigade for that card type. 
36 
 
●    If a convert effect changes a card to an Artifact, it includes an activate an Artifact effect for that Artifact unless 
the ability specifies it is inactive, or the Artifact cannot be activated. 
●    If a convert effect would not change either the brigade(s) or alignment of the card being converted, then the 
card is not a valid target for the convert effect. Converting a multi-brigade card to single-brigade, even if the 
single-brigade is one of the multi-brigades, is changing the brigades of the card. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Multi-brigade is not a specific brigade and cannot be used as a resultant brigade. 
●    If a card converts a card “to meek”, the target must have an inactive identity that is meek to convert to. 
●    The words “repent” and “fall” mean “convert”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
37 
 
Copy 
Last Updated: 9/1/2022 (v8.2.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A copy effect causes one card to copy the special ability and/or attributes of another card. 
●    A copy effect that copies a special ability adds the special ability of the target to the copying card. 
●    A copy effect that copies a card copies all attributes and the special ability of the target, unless it specifies 
attributes or abilities to copy, in which case it only copies those attributes and abilities. The attributes of the 
target replace the attributes of the copying card, and the special ability of the target replaces the special ability 
of the copying card. 
●    The copied special ability activates as the last part of completing the copy effect. 
●    All copy effects end when the card they are on resets to face value, regardless of a specified or default duration 
that would otherwise apply. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, copy effects on a card played in battle last until the card with the copy effect leaves 
the Field of Battle. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, copy effects on a card played outside of battle last until the end of the phase in 
which they are activated. 
●    A copy effect targets the card or special ability that is copied. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All copy effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A copy effect cannot target a special ability that contains a copy effect. Since a copy effect that targets a card 
replaces itself with the target’s special ability, it can be targeted by a later copy effect since it no longer contains 
a copy effect. 
●    If a copy effect copies the special ability of a Lost Soul, activate the copied ability as if the Lost Soul was drawn 
and put in play. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    If a copy effect targets a special ability and not a card, it does not copy any identifiers on the card with the 
copied special ability, including those that impact the ability, like unity and variables (X). The copy of the 
special ability activates without those identifiers. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
38 
 
Create a Token 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 6/11/2018 (v5.1.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A create a token effect creates a token of a specified card type and puts it in a location. 
●    A card with a create a token effect may have a “Token” identifier that describes the attributes of the created 
token beyond the card type. The identifier only applies to the creation of a token, not to any other targeting of a 
token on that card. 
●    If an attribute of the token is described as matching a card, and that card has more than one of that attribute, the 
player carrying out the create a token effect selects one of that attribute for the created token. 
●    The title of the created token always ends with “Token”. If the “Token” identifier is preceded by anything 
enclosed in quotation marks, the token’s title is those words followed by “Token”. Otherwise, the token’s title is 
“[Card Type] Token”, based on the card type used in the create a token effect. 
●    If applicable, the strength, toughness, brigade, gender and role will be listed in the “Token” identifier. Other 
identifiers may also be listed. 
●    If the “Token” identifier lists a testament for the token, the token inherits the reference from the creating card 
and has the testament as an identifier. 
●    A create a token effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, the token ceases to 
exist when the duration is reached. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, tokens are generic. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, tokens are created as meek. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, tokens have the same reference as the card with the create a token effect that 
created them. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, tokens are created in the territory of the player carrying out the create a token 
effect. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, tokens are created under the control of the player that controls the location where 
they are created. 
●    Create a token effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Tokens are owned by the player that carried out the create a token effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
39 
 
Decrease 
 
 
See Increase and Decrease 
 
                                                 
40 
 
Discard 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A discard effect moves a card from its current location to its owner’s discard pile. 
●    If multiple cards are discarded by a single discard effect, reveal the cards before putting them in the discard 
pile. 
●    A discard effect targets the cards that are to be discarded. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All discard effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The word “instantly” in the phrase “instantly discarded” is superfluous. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
41 
 
Disease 
 
 
See Poison and Disease 
 
                                                 
42 
 
Draw 
Last Updated: 5/1/2018 (v6.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A draw effect moves one or more cards from a player’s deck to that player’s hand. 
●    When a Lost Soul is drawn it is put in the owner’s Land of Bondage and another card is drawn from the same 
location to replace the Lost Soul. The Lost Soul does not count as one of the cards drawn. 
●    A draw effect targets the cards to be drawn. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets are drawn from the top of deck. 
●    All draw effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a draw effect is negated, return the drawn cards that are still in hand to the deck in their previous order. If 
this cannot be done, shuffle the drawn cards together and return them to the previous location. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When multiple cards are drawn, they are drawn as a single action not as a separate action for each card. 
●    A card which causes opponents to draw is still a “draw ability used” by its controller. 
●    A mandatory draw, or an optional draw the player elects to complete, is still a “draw ability used” by that 
player, even if 0 cards are drawn or if the deck is empty. 
●    If a player uses a draw ability but does not draw any cards, they are not considered to have drawn. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
43 
 
End the Battle 
Last Updated: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An end the battle effect causes battle resolution to begin immediately. 
●    If an end the battle effect specifies a result of the battle, that result takes precedence over any result that would 
normally occur. 
●    An end the battle effect targets the current battle. 
●    All end the battle effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If there are pending abilities when an end the battle effect completes, the pending abilities never take effect. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    All end the battle effects effectively have cannot be interrupted status because the effect is used in the Battle 
Phase and causes the Battle Phase to end, and effects that complete in one phase can only be interrupted or 
negated during the phase in which they are used. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
44 
 
Equip 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An equip effect puts a weapon on a character. 
●    An equip effect only plays the equipped weapon and activates its special ability if the weapon was not in battle 
prior to the equip and the character it is equipped to is in battle. If the character the weapon is equipped to is in 
a territory or a set-aside area, or if the weapon was already in battle and is equipped to a character in battle, the 
weapon is not played and the special ability does not activate. 
●    If a weapon is equipped to a character and the character is relocated, the equipped weapon is generally relocated 
(regardless of protect effects) to the same location that the character is relocated to and remains there. The 
exception to this rule is: 
1     When a character is captured or rescued, all weapons equipped to that character are discarded. 
●    The target character must be able to use the target weapon. 
●    An equip effect targets the weapon that is equipped, as well as the character it is equipped to. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target character must be in play. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target weapon must be in the player’s hand. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target character must be warrior class and not already equipped with a weapon. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target weapon remains equipped to the target character indefinitely. 
●    All equip effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Once a weapon is equipped by an equip effect to a character, it functions as any other weapon that is equipped 
due to the game action of equipping a weapon to a character (such as during Preparation or Discard Phase, or 
during battle resolution if the weapon was played as a regular Enhancement during battle). This includes the 
concept of an equipped weapon being discarded when a character is captured. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
45 
 
Exchange 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An exchange effect switches the locations of two or more cards. 
●    In addition to switching locations, if either of the cards is targeted by other abilities or game rules when the 
exchange is carried out, the targets of those other abilities or game rules are also switched. 
●    If an exchange effect exchanges a card that one player permanently controls with a card that another player 
permanently controls, the permanent control of each exchanged card is switched. 
●    An exchange effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, when the duration is 
reached the Permanent Controller List is updated. 
●    An exchange effect targets the cards that are to be exchanged. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All exchange effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    An exchange effect requires targets on both ends of the exchange. If a valid target for one end of the exchange 
is not found, the effect does nothing. 
●    The phrase “exchange 2 Lost Souls” means “exchange a Lost Soul for a Lost Soul”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
46 
 
First Strike 
Last Updated: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A first strike effect allows a character to survive if a battle ends in the mutual destruction state. 
●    First strike applies to the rules of initiative during battle and in battle resolution at the end of battle. The 
following conditions are important for determining initiative and battle resolution: 
1     one or more characters in battle have a first strike effect 
2     the battle is in the mutual destruction state 
3     the strength of the first strike characters is greater than or equal to the toughness of all opposing 
character(s) 
●    If these conditions are met, then the battle is moved to the Hero winning or Evil Character winning state, 
whichever one is in favor of the character with first strike. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, first strike effects last until the end of the phase in which they are activated. 
●    A first strike effect targets the character that has first strike. 
●    All first strike effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If there are first strike effects on both sides of battle and the battle ends in a mutual destruction state, the 
characters are discarded as normal for mutual destruction, regardless of first strike. If both sides have characters 
with the effect, then no character has the benefit of surviving mutual destruction. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    “Hero has”, “Hero gains”, “Character has” and “Character gains” refer to the character targeted by the first 
strike effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
47 
 
Gain 
Last Updated: 6/21/2021 (v7.1.0) 
Released: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A gain effect enhances a character by adding one or more characteristics to it. 
●    The characteristics may be abilities, identifiers, or brigades. 
●    A gain effect does not replace any of the character’s characteristics. 
●    A gain effect targets the character to be enhanced. 
●    A gain effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, the enhanced character loses 
the added characteristics when the duration is reached. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All gain effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a gain effect would not change the character to be enhanced, then the character is not a valid target for the 
gain effect. Since a character either is or is not each brigade or identifier, a character gaining a brigade or 
identifier it already has the does not change the character. A character can have any number of abilities, 
including multiple of the same ability, so a character gaining an ability it already has does change the character. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    If an ability uses “gain” but increases strength and/or toughness, it is an increase effect, not a gain effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
48 
 
Give 
 
 
See Take and Give 
 
                                                 
49 
 
Heal 
Last Updated: 5/7/2019 (v6.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A heal effect removes the effects of a discard or an ability paired to a poison, disease or paralyze effect. 
●    When a character is healed, it is no longer poisoned, diseased or paralyzed. Any ongoing effects tied to any of 
those conditions end immediately. 
●    When a character is healed, any decrease of the character’s numbers is removed. 
●    When a character is discarded by an ability, or by a game rule that has been triggered by an ability, after special 
initiative is complete, its controller has initiative to use a heal effect before the discard completes. When this 
occurs, suspend the card causing the discard and additional abilities or effects waiting to activate (currently 
active ongoing abilities remain active). The character’s controller may play an Enhancement or activate an 
effect that will heal the character being discarded. Once the character is put in the discard pile, they can no 
longer be healed. 
●    A character to be discarded during battle resolution can be healed, as described in Battle Resolution. 
●    When a character is healed from being discarded, it is put in the territory of the player with permanent control, 
and the discard is not considered to have completed for the purposes of abilities or conditions that trigger based 
on a character or card being discarded. 
●    A player has the option to play a healing Enhancement during any turn, provided there is a character they 
control that is healable. 
●    A healing Enhancement played from hand must be played on a character that can use the Enhancement, either 
in territory or a character currently being discarded. 
●    A heal effect targets the characters that are to be healed. 
●    A character must be “healable” to be targeted by a heal effect. A character is “healable” if it is being discarded, 
is poisoned, is diseased or is paralyzed. 
●    All heal effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    The ability to use healing cards outside of battle does not apply to characters with heal effects, unless the 
character is territory class. The heal effect on a character without territory class can only be activated in battle. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrase “Restore abilities” means “heal”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
50 
 
Hold 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A hold effect allows a player to put qualifying cards on the card with the hold effect when it is not at its 
maximum capacity and allows a player to return cards already put there with the hold effect. 
●    Many hold effects are manually triggered effects that can only be used during the Preparation Phase of the 
player with permanent control of the card. A hold effect used in this manner can only target each card once 
during each Preparation Phase. 
●    Characters returned from being held are returned to the territory of the player with permanent control of the 
card. 
●    Artifacts returned from being held are returned to the Artifact pile of the player with permanent control of the 
card. 
●    Enhancements returned from being held are returned to the hand of the player with permanent control of the 
card. 
●    If a card is held by another card and the underlying card is relocated, the held card is generally relocated 
(regardless of protect effects) to the same location that the underlying card is relocated to and remains there. 
The exception to this rule is: 
1     Lost Souls held in Sites are returned to the general Land of Bondage and do not follow the underlying 
Sites when the Sites are relocated. 
●    A hold effect targets the cards to be put on or removed from the card bearing the hold effect. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, character targets must be in hand, play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, Artifact, Covenant and Curse targets must be in hand or Artifact pile. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, Enhancement targets must be in hand. 
●    All hold effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a hold effect allows a card to hold an Artifact, Covenant or Curse, putting an Artifact, Covenant or Curse 
there triggers an activate an Artifact effect for that Artifact, Covenant or Curse. 
●    If a hold effect allows a card to be held face down, the card is flipped face down when being held from play or 
a set-aside area, or just held from hand face down without being revealed. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    If an ability on a card explains how to place, exchange, or take cards then that ability takes precedence over any 
hold effect on that card and a hold effect on that card should be disregarded. 
●    If a Fortress with a hold effect does not describe how cards are both added and removed, then the controller 
may add or remove cards during their Preparation Phase. 
●    A hold effect on an Artifact cannot be manually triggered in the Preparation Phase unless the Artifact has been 
activated in that Preparation Phase. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
                                                 
51 
 
Ignore 
 
 
See Withdraw 
 
                                                 
52 
 
Immune and Protect 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    Immune and protect effects keep cards from being affected by a specified set of cards or abilities. 
●    A card that is immune to or protected from cards cannot be targeted by the strength or an ability on a card to 
which it is immune to or protected from, nor on an Enhancement used by that card (if a character). 
●    When comparing the strength of one character to the toughness of a second character that is immune to or 
protected from the first character, the strength of the first character is treated as zero. 
●    A Lost Soul that is protected from cards cannot be rescued by any cards it is protected from, neither by an 
ability on or used by that card nor during battle resolution. 
●    A card that is immune to or protected from abilities cannot be targeted by the specified type of effect within an 
ability, but may be targeted by the strength or other effects on a card with that type of effect. 
●    An immune or protect effect targets the cards that have the immune or protected status. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, immune and protect effects last until the end of the phase in which they are 
activated. 
●    All immune and protect effects are ongoing. 
●    All immune and protect effects are interchangeable. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    When there are more than two characters in a battle that are affected by immune and/or protect effects, you 
must follow a different process to determine the state of the battle and what characters in battle are being 
defeated. That process is defined as follows: 
1     Each character in battle that is not immune to or protected from any opposing characters in battle is 
being defeated if the total strength of all characters on the opponent’s side of battle is greater than or 
equal to the total toughness of all the characters on its side of battle. 
2     Each character in battle that is immune to or protected from at least one opposing character in battle is 
being defeated only if the total strength of the characters that it is not immune to or protected from on 
the opponent’s side of battle is greater than or equal to the total toughness of all the characters on its 
side of battle. 
3     After determining (1) or (2) for each character in battle, the state of the battle is: 
a     Mutual destruction if all Heroes in battle and all Evil Characters in battle are being defeated. 
b     Evil Characters winning if all Heroes but not all Evil Characters in battle are being defeated. 
c     Heroes winning if all Evil Characters but not all Heroes in battle are being defeated. 
d     Stalemate if not all Heroes in battle and not all Evil Characters in battle are being defeated. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    An immune or protect effect only protects the card, not the ability on the card. An immune or protected card 
can be interrupted, prevented or negated. 
●    The phrase “protect X from [player or players]” means “protect X from cards used by [player or players]”. 
53 
 
●    The phrase “protect X from rescue” means “protect X from rescue by cards”, unless it lists a category or 
categories of cards it is protected from. 
●    For all other effects, “protect X from Y (abilities)” means “protect X from Y effects of abilities”. 
●    If a card is immune to or protected from at least one brigade of a multi-brigade card, it is immune to or 
protected from the entire card. 
●    The phrases “cannot be” and “may not be” and “prevented from being” mean “protected from”. Note: “may not 
be” indicates a protect effect when it appears as its own phrase but not when it appears as part of a longer 
phrase such as “may not be blocked by”. 
●    The phrases “cannot be negated”, “cannot be prevented” and “cannot be interrupted” are not protect effects, but 
rather modifiers. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
54 
 
Increase and Decrease 
Last Updated: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An increase or decrease effect changes the strength and/or toughness of characters or Enhancements by 
increasing, decreasing, or setting a specified amount for either or both the strength and toughness. 
●    Increase or decrease effects on Artifacts, Covenants or Curses active as an Artifact, tied to a place effect, or 
with a specified duration are ongoing unless otherwise stated on the card - for instance, an Artifact that 
increases “on activation” does so as an instant effect with every activation. 
●    All other increase or decrease effects are instant. 
●    When the duration or ability of an ongoing increase or decrease ends, so does the increase or decrease effect 
on the target’s strength and/or toughness. 
●    Ongoing increase or decrease effects that are designated by a “*” or “X” on the card are dynamically 
conditional, meaning that the amount of the increase or decrease updates with the condition defining the “*” or 
“X” while the effect is ongoing and active. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, ongoing increase or decrease effects last until the end of the phase in which they 
are activated. 
●    Instant increase or decrease effects that are designated by a “*” or “X” on the card are statically conditional, 
meaning that the amount of the increase or decrease is determined when the effect activates based on the 
condition defining the “*” or “X”; it does not update as the condition changes. 
●    Changes from instant increase or decrease effects are permanent. 
●    If the toughness of a character is decreased to a value of 0 or less, that character is discarded. 
●    An increase or decrease effect targets the cards whose strength and/or toughness are changed. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a card’s strength and/or toughness are increased or decreased by half (or another fraction), this can result in 
decimal or fractional strength and toughness. Do not round such results; use the fractional or decimal numbers 
as calculated. 
●    If an increase in strength or toughness is to a specific value and the increase results in a lower strength or 
toughness, then the increase is treated as optional despite not having the word “may” in the ability. This may 
occur when the strength or toughness of the target was already increased by another increase effect. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Abilities worded “worth X/Y if...” or “if used by [identifier], worth X/Y” are considered increase or decrease 
effects that target the card with the ability. 
●    A strength or toughness of “*” or “X” printed on a card is not an increase or decrease effect, but an identifier to 
define the default strength and/or toughness of a card (even if not printed as an identifier on the card). The 
strength and/or toughness in this case is dynamic and updates with the condition. 
●    The phrase “if result is */0 or less, discard [character]” on cards with increase or decrease effects is a 
clarification reminding players of the game rule that discards such characters, not a discard effect. 
 
55 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
56 
 
Interrupt 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    An interrupt effect temporarily undoes and suspends active or completed abilities, or completing effects of 
abilities, while activating other abilities or effects before the suspended abilities reactivate. 
●    Interrupting an ability does not undo the activation of that ability or its effects, or the targeting of the effects of 
that ability. It only undoes effects of the ability that occurred in the current phase, and pauses any checking of 
conditions for the ability. Interrupted abilities are pending reactivation. 
●    Interrupting an ability interrupts all active, completing, or completed effects of that ability, unless the interrupt 
specifies a type of effect it interrupts, in which case it only interrupts the specified effects. 
●    Interrupt effects are always paired with one or more other effects. Once the specified abilities are interrupted 
the paired effects activate. The interrupt effect completes when all of the paired effects (and abilities resulting 
from the paired effects) have activated. At that point the temporarily suspended abilities attempt to reactivate. 
●    The paired effects of an interrupt effect are the effects that follow it on the same card. If those effects cause 
cards to be played in a manner that activates their abilities (such as band or play an Enhancement), the effects 
of the played cards become paired effects of the interrupt. 
●    After an interrupt effect completes, the suspended abilities that were interrupted attempt to reactivate in the 
same order they were originally activated. Each suspended ability will reactivate unless any of the following 
conditions are met: 
1     The ability was negated, prevented or redirected while it was interrupted. 
2     The card on which the ability exists moved from in play to out of play, moved between out of play 
locations, or changed card type while the ability was interrupted. 
3     The ability is on an Enhancement that was in battle while the ability was interrupted, but does not 
have a character in battle that can use it. 
●    If an ability reactivates after an interrupt and an effect of that ability targets all of something, the targets for the 
effect are updated. Any new possible targets that are available when the ability with the effect is ready to 
reactivate are added as targets. The ability then reactivates. 
●    When an ability reactivates, only the interrupted effects reactivate, in the order they occur in the ability. 
●    An interrupt effect targets the cards and abilities that it interrupts. The card and the ability are targeted 
separately – if either cannot be targeted (such as a protected card or a card without an ability), the other can still 
be targeted. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the targets must be on cards in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All interrupt effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    The phrase “interrupt the battle” includes interrupting the following abilities on cards that are in the current 
battle and cards that were played in the current battle: 
1     all active abilities 
2     abilities with effects that are defeating one of the characters you control in battle 
3     abilities on the last card played in current battle if it was played by your opponent 
●    If an interrupt effect is interrupted and reactivates, it does not update its targets. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
57 
 
Look 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A look effect makes cards visible to a player who cannot usually see them. 
●    If there are a specific number of cards to be looked at from a location, only those cards are targeted. 
●    A look effect does not change the location of the targets, just their visibility. 
●    Only the player carrying out the look effect can see the target cards. 
●    Look effects are often paired with other effects that allow the player carrying out the look effect to act upon one 
or all the targets. The paired effects activate in the order written on the card, so dual icon cards are targeted by 
the first paired effect that can target either face value identity. 
●    When the paired effects are complete, or when the player carrying out the look effect decides to stop looking at 
the targets if there are no paired effects, any targets not removed by the paired effects remain in their location 
and return to their default non-visible state and the look effect completes. 
●    A look effect targets the cards that are to become visible to the player carrying out the look effect. 
●    All look effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Any effect that targets a specific card in an opponent’s hand includes a look effect of that hand, unless the 
opponent selects the targets. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
58 
 
Negate 
Last Updated: 9/1/2022 (v8.2.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A negate effect undoes active or completed abilities, or completing effects of abilities, and keeps the ability and 
its effects from ever completing. 
●    A negate effect interrupts all specified abilities and prevents them from reactivating. A negate effect also 
prevents targeted abilities from ever being able to activate. 
●    Negating an ability negates all effects of that ability, unless the negate specifies a type of effect it negates, in 
which case it only negates the specified effects. 
●    Negate effects target the cards and abilities that they negate. The card and the ability are targeted separately – if 
either cannot be targeted (such as a protected card or a card without an ability), the other can still be targeted. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the targets must be cards and abilities on cards in play or a set-aside area. 
●    A negate effect that undoes abilities that are active or completed, or completing effects of abilities, is instant, as 
an interrupt. 
●    A negate effect that prevents uncompleted abilities from activating is ongoing, as a prevent. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A negate effect cannot negate itself. 
●    If a negate effect targets an ability that changed the locations of one or more cards, only those cards that remain 
in second location are returned to the original location. Cards that moved from the second location prior to the 
negate remain in their new location. This includes Lost Souls, which often don’t reach the second location by 
game rule. 
●    If a negate effect targets one or more abilities, it negates those abilities simultaneously, such that the abilities 
appear to be negated from most recent to least recent. If a negate effect targets multiple abilities that changed 
the locations of one or more cards, any of those cards that remain in the last location return to the location they 
were in prior to the first negated ability. 
●    A negate effect that targets “abilities” or “all abilities” (as opposed to “special abilities”) on a card will negate 
the star ability of that card, if applicable. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Phrases that are constructed as “Negate a/an/all [card type/card name](s)” are equivalent to “Negate all abilities 
on a/an/all [card type/card name](s)”. 
●    The phrase “has no effect” when referring to cards other than characters means “negate”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
59 
 
Paralyze 
Last Updated: 6/11/2018 (v5.1.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A paralyze effect inflicts a paralyzed condition on a character. 
●    While the paralyzed condition remains, the paralyzed character cannot enter battle. 
●    A paralyze effect is sometimes paired with an ongoing ability, which only has an effect while the character 
remains paralyzed. 
●    A paralyze effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, the paralyzed character 
is no longer paralyzed when the duration is reached. This is not a heal effect. 
●    A paralyze effect targets characters. 
●    Targets must be in a territory. 
●    All paralyze effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A card that is already paralyzed can be targeted by another paralyze effect. The paralyze durations, if they exist, 
do not stack but are counted concurrently. 
●    Any “while paralyzed” effect on a character persists while they remain paralyzed, even if the original paralyze 
effect has ended and they are paralyzed from a different effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
60 
 
Place 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A place effect moves a card to a specific location. 
●    A place effect often puts a card in a location where it otherwise cannot be placed, or provides a benefit to the 
player carrying out the place effect. The benefit is often an ability paired with the place effect that lasts while 
the placed card remains placed. 
●    A place effect does not activate the ability on the placed card. 
●    Placed cards can still be affected as usual by game rules and abilities while they remain placed. 
●    If a card is placed on another card and the underlying card is relocated, the placed card is generally relocated 
(regardless of protect effects) to the same location that the underlying card is relocated and remains there. The 
exceptions to this rule are: 
1     Lost Souls that are placed in Sites are always returned to the general Land of Bondage and do not 
follow the underlying Sites when the Sites are relocated. 
2     Any card placed on a Lost Soul is discarded if the Lost Soul is relocated outside its original Land of 
Bondage. 
3     When a character is captured or rescued, all cards placed on that character are discarded. 
●    A place effect targets the cards that are to be placed and the underlying card they are being placed on. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, placed cards remain where they are placed indefinitely. If a duration is specified, 
the placed card is discarded once the duration has been reached. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, placed cards are placed face up. 
●    All place effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a placed card is relocated to a new location, it does not automatically return to where it was placed. It only 
returns to where it was originally placed if (1) it is independently placed there again, (2) the original effect that 
relocated it is negated, or (3) the ability that relocated it specifies it returns there according to a condition. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    “Place on [a card]” and “Place in [a territory]” mean “Place this card on [a card]” and “Place this card in [a 
territory]”. 
●    An ongoing ability paired with a place effect has an implied condition of “while the placed card remains in the 
placed location”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
61 
 
Play an Enhancement 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A play an Enhancement effect allows a player to play an Enhancement outside of the normal rules for 
initiative. 
●    A play an Enhancement effect takes an Enhancement from a location and moves it to a character controlled by 
the player carrying out the play an Enhancement effect. The player carrying out the effect selects the character, 
and the selected character must be able to use the Enhancement. 
●    A play an Enhancement effect does not complete until the abilities on its target have activated. 
●    A play an Enhancement effect targets the Enhancement that is played. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in the hand of the player carrying out the play an Enhancement 
effect. 
●    During the Battle Phase, targets must be used by a character in battle and controlled by the player carrying out 
the play an Enhancement effect unless the ability specifies a character in a territory to use the Enhancement. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, other than during the Battle Phase, targets must be used by a character in the 
territory of the player carrying out the play an Enhancement effect. 
●    All play an Enhancement effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Use other Enhancements effects work with play an Enhancement effects the same way they work when 
playing Enhancements according to initiative rules. 
●    If a play an Enhancement effect targets a card that is placed on a character, it is moved from being placed to a 
character that can use it. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrase “play the first Enhancement” indicates a play an Enhancement effect that takes effect as a response 
to the initial blocker(s) being presented. See Ability Activation Order. 
●    The target of a play an Enhancement effect that specifies that a certain character may play an Enhancement 
must be considered to have been used by that character. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
62 
 
Poison and Disease 
Last Updated: 1/27/2020 (v7.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A poison effect inflicts a poisoned condition on a card. A disease effect inflicts a diseased condition on a card. 
●    A poison or disease effect is always paired with an ongoing ability. The ability that is paired with the poison or 
disease effect is treated as an effect of the poison or disease. 
●    A poison or disease effect targets the cards that are to be poisoned or diseased. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All poison and disease effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A card that is already poisoned or diseased can be targeted by another poison or disease effect. The poison or 
disease effect does not ultimately affect the card because it is already poisoned or diseased, but the ability 
paired with the poison or disease effect does affect the card. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Most poison or disease effects come before the ability with which they are paired. The phrase “treat as a 
disease” is a disease effect that comes after the ability with which it is paired. 
●    “Until healed” indicates an implied poison or disease effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
63 
 
Present 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A present effect moves a character into a battle in which a player controls one side but has no characters on that 
side. 
●    A present effect is always paired with an effect that forces characters to leave battle. 
●    Present effects are often on cards played by the opponent of the player who may use the present effect. 
●    A present effect targets the characters that are to be moved into battle. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in the territory or hand of the player carrying out the present effect. 
●    All present effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a card has an effect that forces characters to leave battle and a present effect, but not all characters on the 
targeted side of the battle leave battle, the present effect does nothing. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Phrases like “a new character may be placed in battle” that are paired with a withdraw effect are present effects. 
●    Cards that move characters into battle but do not contain an effect that forces previous characters to leave battle 
are not present effects. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
64 
 
Prevent 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A prevent effect stops an ability, or effects of the ability, from activating or reactivating. 
●    If an ability is prevented, its activation cannot begin. If an ability is prevented while it is pending reactivation, it 
cannot reactivate. An ability that has activated (but is not pending) or has completed cannot be prevented. 
●    If an instant ability is prevented, and the prevent is later negated, the instant ability does not activate. 
●    If an ongoing ability is prevented, and the prevent is later negated, the ongoing ability activates at that time, but 
may not be able to declare its targets if they are selected by the player. 
●    Preventing an ability prevents all effects of that ability, unless the prevent specifies a type of effect it prevents, 
in which case it only prevents the specified effects. 
●    A prevent effect targets the cards and abilities that it prevents. The card and the ability are targeted separately – 
if either cannot be targeted (such as a protected card or a card without an ability), the other can still be targeted. 
●    Prevent effects are an exception to the rule that states targets must be declared when an effect is activated 
because when a prevent effect is activated the cards it is intended to target are generally not valid targets. The 
targets of a prevent effect are targeted as they become valid targets. The delayed targeting nature of a prevent 
effect is what makes it ongoing. Once an ability has been targeted by a prevent effect, the affect of preventing it 
happens instantaneously. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, prevent effects that have an unlimited number of targets last until the end of the 
phase in which they are activated. Unless otherwise specified, prevent effects that have a limited number of 
targets last until the end of the phase in which they are activated or until they reach their limit on the number of 
targets (whichever comes first). 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the targets must be on cards in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All prevent effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Targets of a prevent effect that are known when the prevent is played must be declared according to the normal 
targeting rule. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Abilities that are worded “negate all abilities” (even if the ability includes an exception or is limited to all 
abilities of a certain type, but does not say “currently in battle”) are a combination of a prevent and a negate 
effect. They should be played as “negate all [specified set of abilities] in play or a set-aside area and prevent all 
[specified set of abilities] for remainder of battle”. 
●    The phrases “No [card type] may”, “cannot”, and “may not” when not immediately followed by the word “be” 
indicate prevent effects. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
65 
 
Protect 
 
 
See Immune and Protect 
 
                                                 
66 
 
Redirect 
Last Updated: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A redirect effect changes which player carries out an ability or which character benefits from the strength 
and/or toughness on a card. 
●    Targets must be in battle, regardless of the type of redirect. 
●    Redirect effects that redirect an ability target the ability that is to be redirected. The target must be pending by 
being interrupted. 
●    Redirecting an ability allows the player using the redirect effect to change which cards are targeted by the 
redirected ability, but does not change the wording on the card. The new targets of the redirected ability may be 
the same as or different than the ones that were originally targeted. 
●    Redirecting an ability does not change which player played the card it is on or the character that used it, but 
does change which player carries out the effect. 
●    Redirect effects that redirect an ability are instant. 
●    Redirect effects that redirect strength and/or toughness target the card that the strength and/or toughness are on. 
The strength and/or toughness of a card can be redirected without interrupting an ability on the card. 
●    Redirecting strength and/or toughness reduces the strength and/or toughness of the target by the amount 
redirected and increases the strength and/or toughness of the redirecting card by the same amount. 
●    Redirect effects that redirect strength and/or toughness are ongoing. 
●    Ongoing redirect effects last until the end of the phase in which they are activated. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Strength and/or toughness only affect a battle while the card they are on is in the battle. If the strength and/or 
toughness of a card are redirected and that card is removed from battle the increase added from redirecting that 
card is lost. 
●    A redirect effect that redirects both the ability and strength and/or toughness of a card is two redirect effects. 
●    When choosing new targets for a redirected ability, restrictions on what can be targeted are applied from the 
perspective of the player using the redirect effect. 
●    If a dual icon card is redirected, it maintains the active identity it had prior to being redirected. If an interrupt 
targeted the ability that changes the identity of the dual icon card, the redirect targets the card with the identity 
it had before attempting to convert. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Redirecting a card does not change its location in battle. It physically remains on the character on which it was 
played, even if it is now working against that character. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
67 
 
Release 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 11/30/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A release effect transforms a captured character back into a character, or moves characters or Lost Souls from a 
location to a different location, or within a location if they were held by a card within the target location. 
●    A captured character targeted by a release effect is no longer a captured character. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, captured characters targeted by a release effect are returned to the territory of the 
player that precedes the capture effect in the Permanent Controller List. 
●    Characters targeted by a release effect are in a Fortress or in set-aside. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, characters targeted by a release effect are returned to the territory of the player that 
precedes the hold or set aside effect in the Permanent Controller List. 
●    Lost Souls targeted by a release effect are in Sites. 
●    Lost Souls targeted by a release effect are returned to their controller’s general Land of Bondage. 
●    A release effect targets the captured characters, characters or Lost Souls that are to be relocated. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All release effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a release effect would not change the location of a card, and the card is not held or transforming in that 
location, then the card is not a valid target for the release effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
68 
 
Remove from the Game 
 
 
See Banish 
 
                                                 
69 
 
Repeat 
Last Updated:  
Released: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A repeat effect repeats previous abilities on a card some number of times. 
●    A repeat effect repeats all abilities that preceded it on the card, so the player can use the abilities multiple times. 
This includes repeating the same effect, or selecting different options when there is a choice between multiple 
effects. 
●    A repeat effect only activates once per activation of the special ability. Once all of the repetitions of the 
previous abilities have activated, the special ability completes. 
●    The number of repetitions a repeat effect performs is locked when the first repetition begins. If the number of 
repetitions is based on a variable or a condition, the status of that variable may change during the repetitions but 
will not increase or decrease the number to be performed. 
●    Repeat effects target all abilities in the same special ability that preceded the repeat effect. 
●    All repeat effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Each repeated ability activates 1 more time than the number of repetitions, since a repeat effect counts the 
repetitions after the initial activation and not the initial activation itself. So “repeat 3 times” results in 4 total 
activations – 1 initial activation and 3 repetitions. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrase “do this twice” is a repeat effect that means “repeat 1 time”. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
70 
 
Rescue 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 3/4/2014
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A rescue effect takes a card from play and moves it to a player’s Land of Redemption, where it becomes a 
Redeemed Soul. 
●    When a card is rescued, all cards equipped to, cards placed on and Artifacts activated on that card are 
discarded. 
●    A rescue effect targets the card that is rescued. 
●    Rescue effects only target Lost Souls and humans. 
●    Lost Souls targeted for rescue must be in an opponent’s Land of Bondage. 
●    All rescue effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a rescue effect causes a player to have the required number of Redeemed Souls to win (5 in Type I games, 
and 7 in Type II games), then the game ends immediately, and the rescue effect cannot be interrupted. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
71 
 
Reserve 
Last Updated:  
Released: 5/7/2019 (v6.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A reserve effect moves cards from their current location to their owners’ Reserve. 
●    A reserve effect targets the cards that are to be reserved. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All reserve effects are instant. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
72 
 
Restrict 
Last Updated: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A restrict effect keeps a player from performing an action that they would normally be allowed to perform. 
●    A restrict effect targets the players that become restricted. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, restrict effects last until the end of the phase in which they are activated. 
●    All restrict effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    The phrases “player may not”, “no player may” and “no [ability] card may be played” mean “restrict”. 
●    The phrase “Restrict [card type]” is short for “Restrict players from playing [card type]”. 
●    The phrase “Limit X per territory” is a restrict effect. 
●    “Skip [a phase]” is a restrict effect that keeps all players from performing any action in the skipped phase. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
73 
 
Resurrect 
Last Updated: 4/11/2022 (v8.1.0) 
Released: 5/10/2017 (v4.1.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A resurrect effect moves cards from a discard pile to a territory. 
●    A resurrect effect targets the cards that are to be resurrected. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, resurrect effects return the targets to their owner’s territory. 
●    All resurrect effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Phrases such as “search discard pile for X and put it in territory” are resurrect effects. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
74 
 
Return to Hand 
 
 
See Bounce 
 
                                                 
75 
 
Reveal 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A reveal effect makes cards that are hidden from at least one player visible to all players. 
●    If there are a specific number of cards to be revealed from a location, only those cards are targeted. 
●    A reveal effect does not change the location of the targets, just their visibility. 
●    When revealing cards, a player must give all other players ample time to observe the revealed cards before 
performing additional actions. 
●    Reveal effects are often paired with other effects that allow the player carrying out the reveal effect to act upon 
one or all the targets. The paired effects activate in the order written on the card, so dual icon cards are targeted 
by the first paired effect that can target either face value identity. 
●    When the paired effects are complete, or when all players decide to stop looking at the targets if there are no 
paired effects, any targets not removed by the paired effects remain in their location and return to their default 
non-visible state and the reveal effect completes. 
●    A reveal effect targets the cards that are to be revealed. 
●    All reveal effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a reveal effect targets “until [something] is revealed”, the number of targets is variable, so the effect reveals 
cards from that location until all of the specified cards are revealed. 
●    If a reveal effect targets more cards than there in a pile (either by a strict number or “until [something] is 
revealed”), the paired effects can still be used on the targets that are revealed. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    If the act of carrying out an effect results in a reveal by game rule, that does not make the ability with that effect 
a reveal ability. If the act of carrying out an effect does not result in a reveal by game rule, that player cannot 
reveal the target cards to show they meet the criteria for another ability. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
76 
 
Search 
Last Updated: 3/10/2025 (v10.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A search effect makes one or more decks, discard piles, Reserves, banish piles, or Artifact piles visible to one 
or more players, so the players can perform an action with a specific card or set of cards. 
●    When a deck is searched, shuffle the deck after the search, even if no target is found. 
●    If a search effect states what to search for but does not specify what to do with that card, then the card is taken 
into the player’s hand. 
●    A search effect targets the set of cards that are to be searched, and the cards that are searched for to be 
removed from that set of cards. 
●    All search effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    The card(s) that are targeted to be removed from the searched set of cards must be revealed before performing 
any other action with them. 
●    Regardless of whether a search is mandatory or optional, a player has the choice to fail any search on a card 
they control, and is not required to select a valid target, even if one exists. A player does not have the choice to 
fail a search on a card they do not control, and is required to select a valid target unless one does not exist, but 
they can opt not to perform an optional search. If a search is mandatory, or an optional search is performed, the 
player controlling the search ability is considered to have “used” a search effect, even if no targets were found. 
●    If a search effect targets multiple cards to remove from one or more sets of cards to search, the searching player 
cannot elect to fail to find some of the targets to remove without failing to find all of the targets to remove. A 
search effect can partially fail if the targets do not exist or the existing targets cannot be moved to the new 
location. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Phrases like “search [location] for X and [do something with that card]” means whatever is done with the card 
overrides the default of going to hand, rather than a separate action after the card is in hand. 
●    An ability that targets a card in a deck, discard pile, Reserve, banish pile or Artifact pile that is not in a specific 
location in that pile, includes a search effect of the pile for the target. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
77 
 
Set-Aside 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A set-aside effect moves cards from a location to a set-aside area. 
●    A set-aside effect may be paired with an ongoing ability that lasts while all the cards set aside by the set-aside 
ability remain set aside. The paired ability defines the benefit derived from being set aside. 
●    When a card is set aside it is moved to the set-aside area of the player that has permanent control. 
●    If the set-aside effect specifies a duration, the targets return immediately when the duration is reached. If the 
set-aside effect does not specify a duration, the controller of the cards that are set aside can elect to return them 
during their Preparation Phase. 
●    When a card returns from the set-aside area it goes the location it was set aside from, or the territory of the 
player with permanent control if the battle it was set aside from has ended. 
●    When a character returns from set-aside, the paired ability ends. If the paired ability has a trigger of “on return” 
or similar, the ability triggers as it ends and the effect is carried out. If the set-aside effect has a specified 
duration and the card was returned prematurely, the ability still ends but it does not trigger the “on return” 
clause, as the condition of setting aside the card for the specified duration was not met. 
●    The active player can play an Enhancement with a set-aside effect on a character in their territory during their 
Preparation or Discard Phase if the set-aside effect has a paired ability and does not specifically target an 
opponent's cards. Set-aside Enhancements played outside of battle are discarded after the targets are set aside. 
Set-aside Enhancements played in battle are treated as regular Enhancements. 
●    Set-aside effects on Enhancements played outside of battle cannot target cards controlled by an opponent, 
unless the Enhancement is territory class. Set-aside effects on Enhancements played in battle can target cards 
controlled by an opponent, unless they have a paired ability and do not specifically target an opponent’s cards 
or any or all cards in a location. Set-aside effects on cards other than Enhancements can target an opponent’s 
cards regardless of when they activate. 
●    A set-aside effect targets the cards that are to be set aside. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play. 
●    All set-aside effects are instant, but any paired abilities are always ongoing. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If more than one card is set aside by one set-aside effect with a specified duration, and one of the cards is 
prematurely removed from set-aside, the other cards remain for the duration. However, if there is a paired 
ability attached to the set-aside, it ends immediately, as the condition of setting aside all the cards for the 
specified duration was not met. 
●    Abilities on cards in set-aside areas are not active unless the card indicates it is played to the set-aside area or 
something in the set-aside area is holding the card. 
●    Cards returning to a hand from set-aside cannot cause the number of cards in that hand to exceed the hand limit. 
If the returning cards would cause a hand to exceed the hand limit, the player that carried out the set-aside effect 
that targeted them selects a number of cards equal to the difference between the hand limit and the current 
number of cards in that hand. The selected cards are returned to that hand and the rest are discarded. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
78 
 
Shuffle 
Last Updated: 2/18/2022 (v8.0.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A shuffle effect moves cards from a location to a random position in the cards’ owner’s deck. 
●    After the shuffle effect randomly puts cards into a deck, the entire deck is shuffled. 
●    A shuffle effect targets the cards that are to be shuffled. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    All shuffle effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a shuffle effect would not change the location of a card, then the card is not a valid target for the shuffle 
effect. 
●    If a shuffle effect targets all cards in a location and that location is empty, the deck belonging to the same player 
as that location is still shuffled. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    An effect that returns cards to a specific location in deck is a topdeck or underdeck effect, not a shuffle effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
79 
 
Side Battle 
Last Updated: 3/1/2023 (v8.3.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A side battle effect suspends the active battle and starts a new Battle Phase with a new battle. The suspended 
battle resumes when the new battle ends. 
●    The two players that were involved in the suspended battle each control one side of the side battle. Determine 
which player controls which side (character) in the side battle, as follows: 
1     If both characters selected to fight in the side battle were controlled by players other than the two in 
battle, the player that used the side battle effect decides which player controls which character in the 
side battle. 
2     If one of the characters selected to fight was controlled by one of the players in battle, and the other 
was controlled by a different player, the one player maintains control of the character they controlled 
and the other player in battle controls the other selected character. 
3     If both characters selected to fight were controlled by one of the players in battle, but neither or both 
were in battle when they were selected, then the player that used the side battle effect decides which 
player controls which character in the side battle. 
4     If both characters selected to fight were controlled by one of the players in battle, and one of them was 
in battle but the other wasn’t, then the player that controlled the character that was in battle continues 
to control it, and the other player controls the other character. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, characters defeated in a side battle are handled according to normal battle resolution 
rules. 
●    When a side battle ends, surviving characters that came from another battle return to their previous battle and 
retain any Enhancements used by them in the side battle. Those retained Enhancements do not reactivate their 
abilities. Surviving characters that did not come from another battle return to the territory of the player with 
permanent control of the card after Enhancements played on them are discarded. 
●    A side battle effect targets the characters that are to fight each other. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or the hand of the player carrying out the side battle effect. 
●    All side battle effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Each player is only allowed to initiate one side battle per turn. If a player has already initiated a side battle in 
the current turn, that player is restricted from initiating another side battle. 
●    A side battle effect requires targets for both sides of the side battle. If a valid target for one side of the side 
battle is not found, the effect does nothing. 
●    Cards in a suspended battle can be targeted and can be affected during the side battle. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Any effect that causes a character to oppose a character of matching alignment is a side battle effect. 
●    If a character in the suspended battle is defeated by an ability played in a side battle, the player controlling it is 
not granted Special Initiative for the defeating ability as it would if the ability were played in the same battle as 
80 
 
the character. This is because by the time the side battle resolves, the only abilities that can be targeted for 
interrupt are abilities in the main battle, which are not directly causing the removal of the defeated character. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
81 
 
Site Access 
Last Updated: 10/10/2012 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A Site access effect causes a Hero to have access to a Site that it would not normally have. 
●    If a Site access effect gives access to one or more Sites, the defender selects which Site will be accessed. 
However, a Site holding a Lost Soul that the character cannot access may not be selected. 
●    Site access effects are dynamic in that the Sites that are accessible can change over the course of the battle. 
●    An “access to all Sites” effect dynamically includes unoccupied Sites that become occupied after the beginning 
of battle. An “access to any Site” effect loses access to a Site initially selected when it ceases to hold a Lost 
Soul. 
●    Site access effects target the Heroes that have access. 
●    All Site access effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Since Site access effects are dynamic and only one Lost Soul can be rescued in each battle, there is no 
functional difference between having access to “any” (one) Site and having access to “all” Sites. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
82 
 
Take and Give 
Last Updated: 5/7/2019 (v6.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A take effect shifts control of cards a player does not currently control to that player. A give effect shifts control 
of cards from the giving player to another player. 
●    Cards that are targeted by a take or give effect are moved from their previous location and put in a location the 
player receiving the cards controls. Permanent control of the taken or given cards transfers to the player 
receiving the cards. 
●    A take or give effect is permanent, unless a duration is specified. If a duration is specified, when the duration is 
reached the Permanent Controller List is updated. 
●    A take or give effect targets the cards that are to be taken or given. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets are moved to the hand of the player obtaining control of the cards. 
●    All take and give effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    A take or give effect takes precedence over the “cards are only in their owner’s hands” aspect of face value. 
That aspect of face value is suspended while the card is in the receiving player’s hand. All other aspects of face 
value remain intact. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    A take effect used by a player cannot target cards in that player’s territory, set-aside area, hand, or the side of a 
battle that player controls. A give effect can only target a card that is permanently controlled by the player using 
the give effect. 
●    A similar ability can change the player that controls a card by relocating it to a location controlled by a different 
player, indirectly changing the controller of the card. Such abilities do not have take effects. Those abilities 
move first and then implicitly transfer control. The take effect takes control first and then implicitly moves the 
card. 
●    Any cards that follow a card that is taken or given to a hand are returned to their owners’ hands, as the 
following cards were not taken or given and do not have anything taking precedence over the “cards are only in 
their owner’s hands” aspect of face value. 
●    The phrase “add [it] to hand” is a take effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
83 
 
Taunt 
Last Updated: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A taunt allows a player to make a battle challenge with an Evil Character. 
●    In the place of the normal battle challenge or rescue attempt on their turn, a player may make a “taunt battle 
challenge” with an Evil Character with a taunt identifier. 
●    A taunt battle challenge is begun by putting the Evil Character into battle and declaring an opponent. The 
opponent may accept the taunt battle challenge by putting a Hero into battle to fight the Evil Character. 
●    If an Evil Character wins the taunt battle challenge, activate the ability in the parentheses after the taunt 
identifier. The Evil Character can win in one of two ways: 
1     The opponent declines the taunt battle challenge by not putting a Hero in battle to oppose the Evil 
Character. 
2     All Heroes that opposed an Evil Character are defeated as described in Defeat. 
●    Only the first Evil Character with a taunt identifier to enter a taunt battle challenge may use the ability in the 
parentheses after the taunt identifier. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
84 
 
Topdeck and Underdeck 
Last Updated: 8/10/2015 (v3.0.0) 
Released: 10/10/2012
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A topdeck effect moves cards to the top of their owner’s deck. An underdeck effect moves cards to the bottom 
of their owner’s deck. 
●    All topdeck and underdeck effects target the cards that are to be relocated to a deck. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, if cards are revealed or looked from the top or bottom of a deck, and all or a portion 
of them are then topdecked or underdecked, they are moved in the original order. If this cannot be done, shuffle 
the cards prior to moving them to the designated location. 
●    All topdeck and underdeck effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    If a topdeck or underdeck effect would not change the location of a card, then the card is not a valid target for 
the topdeck or underdeck effect. 
●    When a card is returned to a deck it is returned to face value. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    “Place/put on draw pile” and “Place/put on deck” are topdeck effects. 
●    “Place/put under draw pile” and “Place/put under deck” are underdeck effects. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
85 
 
Toss 
Last Updated: 9/1/2022 (v8.2.0) 
Released: 3/4/2013
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A toss effect utilizes a played Enhancement in a different way than usual; instead of activating the numbers or 
abilities of the Enhancement, the Enhancement is discarded to decrease an opposing character. 
●    The opposing character is decreased X/X, where X is the strength of the discarded Enhancement at face value. 
The decrease is instant. 
●    A toss effect targets the Enhancements as they are played and an opposing character to be decreased for each 
targeted Enhancement. 
●    Toss effects that target variations on the “next Enhancement” or “all Enhancements” are ongoing. 
●    All other toss effects are instant. Instant toss effects allow a player to play an Enhancement to be tossed. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Weapons which are played in battle, including those equipped to characters moved into battle are also affected 
by an active toss effect. 
●    Enhancements played in battle or added to battle by an ability are also affected by an active toss effect. 
●    If a toss effect is negated all tossed cards are returned to their previous locations and the decrease is removed 
from the decreased characters. 
●    If an Enhancement with negative strength is tossed, it results in an increase to the opposing character. This is 
because the decrease subtracts the strength from the opposing character, and subtracting a negative number 
increases the value. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    Since the toss effect targets both the Enhancement and the character, negating (or protecting from) the tossed 
Enhancement does not undo (or stop) the decrease. The negate needs to target (or the protect needs to be from) 
the card with the toss effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
86 
 
Transfer 
Last Updated: 1/3/2018 (v5.0.0) 
Released: 8/23/2016 (v4.0.0)
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A transfer effect moves captured characters from a location to an opponent’s territory. 
●    Permanent control of the captured characters transfers to the opponent receiving the captured characters. 
●    A transfer effect targets the captured characters that are to be moved. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the captured character is moved from the controller’s territory. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the captured character is moved to an opponent’s Land of Bondage. 
●    All transfer effects are instant. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
87 
 
Underdeck 
 
 
See Topdeck and Underdeck 
 
                                                 
88 
 
Use Other Enhancements 
Last Updated: 11/20/2023 (v9.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A use other Enhancements effect allows characters to use Enhancements that do not match their brigade. 
●    The targets have the ability to use the specified Enhancements, even if they are not of matching brigade. If 
played during battle, these Enhancements are also not discarded for having no character of matching brigade in 
battle, so long as a character in the battle is targeted by a use other Enhancements effect that specifies the 
Enhancement. 
●    A use other Enhancements effect targets the characters that can use other Enhancements. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, the target characters must be in play or a set-aside area. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, use other Enhancements effects last until the end of the phase in which they are 
activated. 
●    All use other Enhancements effects are ongoing. 
 
 
 
Special Conditions 
 
●    Any time the matching brigade requirement applies, the specified requirement can be satisfied instead, even in 
situations where Enhancements are played outside of battle if the use other Enhancements effect is active at 
the time. 
●    A use other Enhancements effect does not allow a character to use Enhancements of a different alignment. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    When it appears as part of a play or add to battle ability, the phrase “regardless of brigade” is a regardless 
modifier. Otherwise, the phrase “regardless of brigade” indicates a use other Enhancements effect. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
89 
 
Withdraw 
Last Updated: 3/13/2026 (v11.0.0) 
Released: 7/26/2011
 
 
How to Play 
 
●    A withdraw effect moves characters or Sites from the Field of Battle to territory. 
●    Withdrawn cards move to the territory of the player with permanent control of the card. 
●    A withdraw effect targets the cards that are to be withdrawn. 
●    Unless otherwise specified, targets must be in the Field of Battle. 
●    All withdraw effects are instant. 
 
 
 
Clarifications 
 
●    “Retreat” and “return to territory” are treated as “withdraw” when used to target cards in the Field of Battle. 
●    The words “ignore” and “repel” and the phrases “may not be blocked by” and “cannot enter battle” mean 
“withdraw”. The phrase “has no effect” when referring to characters means “withdraw”. 
●    “[Character(s)] ignore(s) [other characters]” on cards outside of battle is a triggered withdraw, meaning “If 
[character(s)] enter(s) battle, withdraw [other characters]”. 
●    “[Character(s)] ignore(s) [other characters]” on Enhancements in battle is a conditional withdraw, meaning “If 
used by [character(s)], withdraw [other characters]”. 
●    Any other ignore, whether it is on a character or doesn’t specify which characters are ignoring, is just a 
withdraw with no conditions or triggers. 
 
Return to Table of Contents 
 
                                                 
90 
 
Glossary of Terms 
A 
 
Action Priority 
 
Action Priority is the order in which players can take actions that can happen while no effects 
or actions are resolving. Any game action that is neither a part nor a result of Action Priority 
creates an Action Priority scenario that must be completed before further game actions can be 
taken. 
 
Action Priority goes through 3 levels: 
1)  each player can use any pending triggered effects they control, 
2)  then each player can play a Dominant, 
3)  then each player can use a manually triggered effect they control. 
 
At each level, players follow an order specified below. Each player can either perform an 
action at that level or pass the opportunity to the next player. Action Priority moves down a 
level when every player has passed the opportunity at that level. The Action Priority scenario 
completes when every player has passed the opportunity at level 3. 
 
Performing an action at level 1 does not reset the player order to the active player. 
Performing an action at level 2 or 3 resets Action Priority to level 1. 
 
Unless the situation is described below, the active player initially has Action Priority during 
each phase of their turn. Then Action Priority is given to inactive players in turn order. 
 
If a player plays a Dominant at level 2, when Action Priority returns to level 2, the player that 
played the Dominant initially has Action Priority. Level 2 of Action Priority follows the 
player order from that player through each other player. 
 
During the Battle Phase, the active player initially has Action Priority, regardless of 
initiative. Then Action Priority is given to the opponent of the active player, then passed to 
all other inactive players in turn order. 
 
In Teams, during the Battle Phase, the active player initially has Action Priority, regardless 
of initiative. Then Action Priority is given to the opponent of the active player, then the 
active player’s teammate, then the opponent’s teammate. 
 
Activate 
 
Activate can mean four things: 
•    A player can activate an Artifact by putting it face up on their Artifact pile or another 
location that allows an activated Artifact to be put there, or by declaring that a face-up 
91 
 
Artifact remains active. 
•    The special ability of a card activates when the card is played, unless it is a non-territory 
class character or rainbow Site being put in territory. 
•    When the special ability on a card activates, the abilities on a card activate in the order 
printed on the card or order gained, unless changed by the Ability Activation Order. The 
modifiers on a card also activate when the special ability on that card activates, but they 
activate prior to the abilities, unless the target of an ability can impact the modifiers. 
•    Effects of an ability activate depending on the method of activation – immediate, 
manually triggered or triggered. 
 
Players are restricted from activating one or more instant effects in the special ability on the 
same card more than 4 times in a turn. 
 
Active Identity 
 
When dual icon cards are put on the playing surface, they either have a default identity 
indicated on the card, or one identity is selected when the card is put on the playing surface - 
either by how the card was put on the playing surface, or the player can select an identity if it 
could retain both identities. The identity that is selected becomes the active identity, the other 
identity the inactive identity. Cards with only one icon do not have an inactive identity, as the 
identity associated with the one icon is always the active identity. 
 
Active Player 
 
The active player is the player whose turn it is. 
 
Advantage 
 
A player has advantage if they have more cards in the specified location or with the specified 
attribute. Advantage does not count Lost Souls or Redeemed Souls, except in the case of 
“Lost Soul advantage” and “Redeemed Soul advantage”, respectively. Unless otherwise 
specified, the players involved in the advantage comparison are the player(s) it names and the 
player controlling the card with the advantage comparison. If the players involved in the 
advantage comparison have the same number of cards, neither player has advantage. 
 
For cards in play and set-aside areas, a player has the cards they own and control (including 
those that are face down). For cards in other locations, the owner of those locations has the 
cards in it, regardless of their ownership of the individual cards in that location. 
 
If the advantage looks at attributes of the cards, it counts cards with those attributes in play, 
set-aside areas and Lands of Redemption. 
 
“Board advantage” counts cards in play, set-aside areas and Lands of Redemption. “Play 
advantage” counts cards in play. 
 
92 
 
After Battle 
 
After battle effects are triggered effects that happen during battle resolution. Any cards 
targeted by after battle effects must be valid targets in their state after battle, regardless of 
their state during the battle. 
 
“At the end of battle” means “After battle”. “Following your rescue attempt” means “After 
your rescue attempt”. 
 
Alignment 
 
There are three card alignments in Redemption®: good, evil, and neutral. All cards are at 
least one of the alignments, and some may be multiple alignments as described in Dual-
Alignment. 
 
Good and evil are opposite alignments. Neutral is not opposite of any alignment. 
 
Alone 
 
A character is alone when there are no other characters on the same side of the battle. 
 
Artifact 
 
An Artifact is a card having a continuing effect in the game. A grail or serpent icon in the 
icon box shows the card is an Artifact. All Artifacts are face down in the Artifact pile while 
inactive. An Artifact is activated when it is put face up on the Artifact pile or another location 
where Artifacts may be activated, and remains active while it remains face up. See duration 
for how long abilities on Artifacts last. Unless otherwise specified, abilities on Artifacts are 
used when the Artifact is activated. 
 
If a player controls an active Artifact and that Artifact is deactivated or otherwise rendered 
inactive (such as being discarded or shuffled), that player is restricted from activating that 
Artifact (including other copies of that Artifact, since they are unique) for the rest of the turn. 
This includes deactivations during a player’s Preparation Phase, so any previously active 
Artifacts must be reactivated, moved or swapped, since they cannot be reactivated if 
deactivated. If the ability that activated an Artifact is negated, the Artifact is not considered 
to have been activated that turn and can be activated, but its ability cannot activate unless it 
was previously negated that turn. 
 
Artifact Pile 
 
The Artifact pile contains a player’s grail and serpent icon cards. This pile is in the player’s 
territory within the Field of Play. All Artifacts in an Artifact pile are put face down in a pile, 
except for a currently activated Artifact. See Player’s Card Arrangement in the rulebook. 
 
93 
 
Attack 
 
When the active player begins a battle against another player, the active player attacks that 
player. The player they are attacking is being attacked, the defender, and their opponent. See 
Defend. Only the characters that begin the battle attack. A player may only be attacked once 
per Battle Phase. 
 
An ability that is triggered by a character entering battle to attack (or a player being attacked) 
can be triggered multiple times, but the player can only use the effect based off one of those 
triggers, not all of them. A modifier that is triggered by a character entering battle to attack 
(or a player being attacked) can be triggered multiple times, as the triggered modifier is not 
delayed like the triggered effect. Since the attack is limited to beginning the battle, these 
triggers can only trigger once per battle. 
 
Once a player has made a successful rescue attempt, they are restricted from attacking any 
player until each other player has had a turn. 
 
Attacking 
 
A character is attacking if it is in battle and controlled by the attacking player, regardless of 
the presence of an opposing character in the battle. A player is attacking from the beginning 
of the battle they begin until the end of battle resolution of that battle. 
 
No characters are attacking in a side battle. 
 
Attribute 
 
Attributes describe what a card is, not what it does. It includes identifiers, strength, 
toughness, brigade, card type and reference. It does not include the special ability printed on 
the card. 
 
B 
 
Banish Pile 
 
The banish pile is the location in which banished cards reside. Cards in the banish pile are 
viewable by any player provided no effects are resolving. The banish pile is kept face-down 
under a player’s discard pile, perpendicular to the discard pile. 
 
Battle 
 
The phrase “in battle” or “current battle” refers to any cards in the current battle that can be 
either the primary battle (rescue attempt or battle challenge) or it can refer to a side battle, 
NOT BOTH. See also Battle Phase. 
94 
 
 
The alignments of the sides of a battle are determined when the battle begins. Evil Characters 
cannot enter battle on the good side and Heroes cannot enter battle on the evil side. In taunt 
battle challenges, the attacker controls the evil side and the defender controls the good side. 
In rescue attempts and non-taunt battle challenges, the attacker controls the good side and the 
defender controls the evil side. In side battles, the alignments are determined by the ability 
that began the side battle. 
 
The phrase “Field of Battle” refers to any cards in the Field of Battle including the primary 
battle and side battles. 
 
Battle Challenge 
 
A battle is a battle challenge while any of these conditions are met: 
•    No Hero in battle has access to a Lost Soul 
•    It began as a taunt 
•    An ability created a battle challenge 
•    A game rule created a battle challenge 
 
A battle that is a battle challenge because no Hero in battle has access to a Lost Soul may 
become a rescue attempt if anything happens that results in a Hero in battle having access to 
a Lost Soul. A battle that is a battle challenge created by an ability can only become a rescue 
attempt if the ability that created the battle challenge is negated. A battle that is a battle 
challenge created by game rule was a rescue attempt that has already been successful by 
rescuing a Lost Soul via a card played in battle. 
 
If a battle is only a battle challenge and never a rescue attempt, the success or failure is 
determined solely by the result of the battle. The battle challenge succeeds if all opposing 
characters are defeated or there were never any opposing characters. The battle challenge 
fails if all attacking characters are defeated. 
 
Battle Phase 
 
The Battle Phase is the fourth phase of a player’s turn, succeeding the Preparation Phase and 
preceding the Discard Phase. During their Battle Phase, a player may begin a battle against 
another player. Only one battle per turn is allowed, unless an ability allows for additional 
battles. The Battle Phase ends after battle resolution, which is initiated by an end the battle 
effect or when both players involved in the battle decline to play or use any more cards 
during the battle. (See Battle Phase in the rulebook for additional information.) Each battle 
takes place in a separate Battle Phase. 
 
Battle Resolution 
 
As is described in battle resolution in the rulebook, there are four outcomes to a battle: 
•    Evil Character wins 
•    Hero wins 
95 
 
•    Mutual destruction 
•    Stalemate 
 
However, beyond the outcome of the battle you must also determine the outcome of the 
battle challenge or rescue attempt. Here is the order to follow: 
1.   Add the numbers of the Enhancements in battle to the characters that used them. If this 
results in 0 or less toughness for any characters, discard those characters. 
2.   Determine the outcome of the battle. Discard all characters that are being discarded based 
on the strength and toughness comparison. Discard all Enhancements that no longer have 
a character that can use them in battle. 
3.   Activate all effects that trigger based on the result of the battle. 
4.   If the battle was ever a rescue attempt and it has not already been successful, determine 
the result of the rescue attempt. If the battle was never a rescue attempt and only a battle 
challenge, determine the result of the battle challenge. Determine the result of the block. 
If the rescue attempt is successful, the defender surrenders a Lost Soul. 
5.   Activate all effects and game rules that trigger after battle, or based on the success/failure 
of the rescue attempt, battle challenge or block. 
6.   If any characters that remain in battle came from another battle, they return to that battle 
and retain any Enhancements used by them. 
7.   Any warrior class characters in battle not currently equipped with a weapon class 
Enhancement may be equipped with an unequipped weapon class Enhancement in battle - 
current controller’s choice. Discard all Enhancements in battle that are not placed or 
equipped. Any characters and Sites that remain in battle are returned to the territory of the 
player that has permanent control. 
 
Bearer 
 
The bearer of a card is the card another card is placed on or equipped to. During battle, the 
bearer of an Enhancement is the character that used it. 
 
Begins a Battle 
 
A character begins a battle if ALL of the following conditions are met: 
•    The character enters battle under the control of the active player 
•    No player has had the option to use Action Priority since the first character attacked this 
battle 
•    No characters have entered the current battle under the control of the defending player 
since the first character attacked 
 
Multiple characters may begin a battle. In a side battle, the initial characters enter battle at the 
same time, so no characters begin the battle. A lone character begins a battle when a 
character begins a battle and is alone when the triggered effect activates. 
 
An ability that is triggered by a character beginning a battle can be triggered multiple times, 
but the player can only use the effect based off one of those triggers, not all of them. A 
96 
 
modifier that is triggered by a character beginning a battle can be triggered multiple times, as 
the triggered modifier is not delayed like the triggered effect. 
 
Begins a Rescue 
 
A Hero begins a rescue if that character begins a battle where at least one Hero has access to 
a Lost Soul. 
 
Black Brigade 
 
Black is descriptive of calamity and Hell. 
 
“Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to 
whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever.” – Jude 1:13 
 
Block 
 
A block is the attempt to stop a rescue attempt or battle challenge. Only Evil Characters may 
block. 
 
An Evil Character blocks if ALL of the following are conditions are met: 
•    The character enters battle under the control of the defending player 
•    The battle was begun by a Hero 
•    No player has had the option to use Action Priority since the first character blocked this 
battle 
•    No characters have entered battle under the control of the attacking player since the first 
character attacked this battle 
 
When an Evil Character blocks, it blocks the Heroes that are currently in battle. 
 
An ability that is triggered by a character entering battle to block (or being blocked) can be 
triggered multiple times, but the player can only use the effect based off one of those triggers, 
not all of them. A modifier that is triggered by a character blocking (or being blocked) can be 
triggered multiple times, as the triggered modifier is not delayed like the triggered effect. 
 
A block is successful if: 
•    The battle was a rescue attempt at any point and the rescue attempt fails, regardless of 
any other outcome or whether the Heroes or Evil Characters survive. 
•    The battle was never a rescue attempt, only a battle challenge throughout, and the Heroes 
are all defeated. 
 
A block has failed if: 
•    The battle was a rescue attempt at any point and the rescue attempt is successful, 
regardless of any other outcome or whether the Heroes or Evil Characters survive. 
•    The battle was never a rescue attempt, only a battle challenge throughout, and the Evil 
97 
 
Characters are all defeated. 
 
Blocking 
 
An Evil Character is blocking if it is defending in a battle begun by a Hero, regardless of the 
presence of a Hero in the battle. A player is blocking if they control a blocking Evil 
Character. 
 
Blue Brigade 
 
Blue is descriptive of Heavenly character. 
 
“And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.” – Exodus 28:31 
 
Brigade 
 
Characters, Enhancements, and Sites are subdivided into brigades. The color filling a card’s 
icon box indicates its brigade. See Diagram of a Card in the rulebook. There are 16 brigades - 
7 are usually evil (on Evil Characters and evil Enhancements) and 9 are usually good (on 
Heroes and good Enhancements). All 16 brigades can be neutral, such as a Site or a captured 
character. 
 
The good brigades are as follows: 
•    Blue, Clay, Gold, Green, Purple, Red, Silver, Teal, and White 
The evil brigades are as follows: 
•    Black, Brown, Crimson, Gold, Gray, Orange, and Pale Green 
 
A good/evil/neutral brigade is a brigade on a good/evil/neutral card. Brigade (without 
alignment) only checks the presence of the brigade and does not double count any that appear 
as different alignments. Matching brigade requires cards to share at least one brigade. 
 
Single-Brigade 
 
A single-brigade card has only one brigade in the icon box. A dual icon card is single-brigade 
if the targeted identity only has one brigade. 
 
Multi-Brigade 
 
A multi-brigade card has more than one brigade in the icon box. A dual icon card is multi-
brigade if the targeted identity has more than one brigade. 
 
If an ability excludes a brigade (except, other than, etc.), a multi-brigade card can be targeted 
or meet the criteria if it has a brigade that is not excluded. 
 
Rainbow 
 
98 
 
Rainbow cards have a rainbow coloring in the icon box. The lighter rainbow appears on good 
and neutral cards, and the darker rainbow appears on evil cards. For cards with brigades, the 
rainbow represents all brigades of the card’s alignment. The rainbow in the icon box 
represents alignment, not brigade, on Fortresses and good Dominants. 
 
Brown Brigade 
 
Brown is descriptive of being scorched and rebellious (from the Hebrew word Chuwm; to be 
warm, i.e., by implication here to be sunburnt). 
 
“And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given 
unto him to scorch men with fire. And men were scorched with great heat, and 
blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues: and they 
repented not to give him glory.” – Revelation 16:8-9 
 
C 
 
Captured Character 
 
Captured characters are Heroes or Evil Characters that have been captured. Captured humans 
are neutral cards, while captured non-humans retain the alignment they had prior to being 
captured. Captured humans are Lost Souls as well as captured characters while they are in a 
Land of Bondage. Captured non-humans are not Lost Souls in any location. 
 
Captured characters remain characters, but are no longer Heroes or Evil Characters. They are 
captured Heroes or captured Evil Characters, depending on their alignment prior to being 
captured. Captured characters also retain their identifiers, reference and brigades. Players are 
restricted from activating Artifacts on captured characters. Captured characters do not have a 
special ability, so they are meek. 
 
Special rules about targeting captured characters are described in Targeting. The limitations 
on targeting do not extend to seeing them, so captured characters can be seen or counted by 
abilities or identifiers that look for their identifiers and/or brigades. 
 
Card Type 
 
A card’s type is determined solely by the icon on the card: 
•    Cards with no icon are Lost Souls 
•    Lamb icons are good Dominants 
•    Grim Reaper icons are evil Dominants 
•    Grail icons are Artifacts 
•    Serpent icons are Artifacts 
•    Fortress icons are Fortresses 
•    Pyramid icons are Sites 
99 
 
•    Cross icons are Heroes 
•    Bible icons are good Enhancements 
•    Dragon icons are Evil Characters 
•    Skull icons are evil Enhancements 
 
If a card has two icons, it is a dual icon card. The brigade(s) or alignment(s) of a card do not 
affect its type. 
 
Carry Out an Effect 
 
A player carries out an effect when they perform that effect, even if they are not using the 
ability with that effect. If an effect is prevented or affected by an instead modifier, it is not 
performed and therefore not carried out. Multiple players can carry out the same effect, if an 
ability instructs multiple players to do something. 
 
While an effect can be carried out if it specifies more targets than there are valid targets, an 
effect is only fully carried out if there are at least as many valid targets as specified targets. 
 
If a condition checks that a player does (or did) an effect, the player that carried out the effect 
is the one that does (or did) it, not the player that used the ability. 
 
Character 
 
Redemption® has three types of characters: Heroes, Evil Characters, and captured characters. 
 
City 
 
A City is both a Site and a Fortress, and can be targeted as either (while at face value) until it 
is played as one or the other. A City that is played as a Site can no longer be targeted as a 
Fortress. A City that is played as a Fortress can no longer be targeted as a Site. A City can 
always be targeted as a City. 
 
Clay Brigade 
 
Clay is descriptive of a new creation through Christ’s power molded by the Creator like clay 
into a work of His hands. 
 
“But now, O LORD, You are our Father, We are the clay, and You our potter; 
And all of us are the work of Your hand.” – Isaiah 64:8 
 
“Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; the old things passed 
away; behold, new things have come.” – II Corinthians 5:17 
 
Contents 
 
100 
 
The contents of a card are (1) any cards held by the hold effect of that card, (2) any Artifacts 
activated on that card and/or (3) any Lost Souls occupying a Site. Characters do not have 
contents. Cards that are placed on a Site or Fortress are not contents. Cards that are placed on 
a card held in a Fortress or occupying a Site are not contents. Cards equipped to a character 
held in a Fortress are not contents. The contents of a card that is itself contents of another 
card are not contents of the second card. 
 
A card only has contents if at least one card is contained there. If there are no contained 
cards, contents does not exist, as opposed to existing but being empty. 
 
Control 
 
When a player controls a card, that player may use the card as if it is their own, even if it is 
not. There are two types of control: Temporary Control and Permanent Control. 
 
Cards in decks, Reserves, discard piles, and banish piles are not controlled by any player. 
Cards that a player controls that are face down on the playing surface are only controlled as 
their known attributes. Cards that a player controls in hand are only controlled as cards. 
 
The player who controls a card is the controller of that card. 
 
Counters 
 
Counters are items such as coins, chips or dice that help to keep track of changes to the face 
value of a card, or to keep track of a quantity (such as a number of turns). All counters are 
optional. Counters are most often used to keep track of changes to strength and toughness, 
though they can also be used to count a number of turns, or to keep track of gained abilities 
and converted characters. 
 
Covenant 
 
A Covenant is both a good Enhancement and an Artifact, and can be targeted as either (while 
at face value) until it is played, held, activated, or put in Artifact pile as one or the other. A 
Covenant that is played or held as an Enhancement can no longer be targeted as an Artifact. 
A Covenant that is activated or put in the Artifact pile can no longer be targeted as an 
Enhancement and it is a neutral card with no brigade. A Covenant can always be targeted as a 
Covenant, which may be modified by a brigade or being active as an Artifact. 
 
Crimson Brigade 
 
Crimson is descriptive of persecution and sin. 
 
“And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red 
dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.” 
– Revelation 12:3 
 
101 
 
“Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be 
as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, 
they shall be as wool.” – Isaiah 1:18 
 
NOTE: Cards from the Limited Edition series look red instead of crimson. Treat as the same 
brigade. 
 
Curse 
 
A Curse is both an evil Enhancement and an Artifact, and can be targeted as either (while at 
face value) until it is played, held, activated, or put in Artifact pile as one or the other. A 
Curse that is played or held as an Enhancement can no longer be targeted as an Artifact. A 
Curse that is activated or put in the Artifact pile can no longer be targeted as an 
Enhancement, and it is a neutral card with no brigade. A Curse can always be targeted as a 
Curse, which may be modified by a brigade or being active as an Artifact. 
 
D 
 
Deck 
 
A player’s deck is where most of their cards come from during a game. Cards that do not 
come from the deck come from the Reserve. The word “deck” in an ability or modifier refers 
to the face down cards remaining in the deck. The phrase “draw pile” is also used on several 
cards, and it is equivalent to deck. 
 
Defeat 
 
A Hero is defeated when: 
•    The Hero is removed from battle because of an ability (except a good exchange ability). 
•    The battle ends with the Hero being discarded by the numbers of the Evil Character(s) in 
battle (except in the case of a mutual destruction). 
•    The battle ends in a stalemate. 
 
An Evil Character is defeated when: 
•    The Evil Character is removed from battle because of an ability (except for mutual 
destruction by mutual removal or an evil exchange ability). 
•    The battle ends with the Evil Character being discarded by the numbers of the Hero(es) in 
battle. 
 
Defend 
 
The player that is being attacked is the defender. See Attack. The attacker is their opponent.  
 
102 
 
The first action the defender takes after being attacked does not have be presenting a 
character. The opportunity to present a character only passes when a character enters the 
defender’s side of battle or the battle enters battle resolution. If the first character to enter the 
defender’s side of battle was moved in by a choose opponent effect and that choose opponent 
effect is negated, the defender can present a character unless they control a character on their 
side of battle. 
 
Defending 
 
A character is defending if it is in battle and controlled by the defending player, regardless of 
the presence of an opposing character in the battle. A player is defending from the beginning 
of the battle their opponent began until the end of battle resolution of that battle. 
 
No characters are defending in a side battle. 
 
Different 
 
When comparing attributes of cards, two cards are different if there is at least a partial 
difference, based on the active identity of cards on the playing surface and the face value of 
cards at face value. If either or both cards has more than one of the compared attribute (such 
as a multi-brigade card), only one of that attribute has to be different between the two cards 
for them to be considered different. 
 
Discard Phase 
 
The fifth and final phase of a turn is the Discard Phase, succeeding the Battle Phase. During 
their Discard Phase, a player’s hand must be reduced to eight or fewer cards through the 
following actions: 
•    Put a character in territory 
•    Equip a weapon class Enhancement to a warrior class character in territory 
•    Put a Site in territory 
•    Play a Fortress (in territory unless otherwise specified on the card) 
•    Put an Artifact face down in the Artifact pile 
•    Play an Enhancement with a set-aside or heal ability, or that is territory class (limit 1 
territory class Enhancement played via game rule each turn, limit includes those played in 
the Preparation Phase) 
•    Discard a card from hand 
All these actions are repeatable (unless a limit is specified) and can be performed in any 
order. Discarding cards from hand does not have to be the last action taken by the player. 
(See Discard Phase in the rulebook for additional information.) 
 
Discard Pile 
 
The discard pile is kept face up in a player’s Out of Play area. The discard pile contains cards 
that have been used or otherwise discarded during the game. Cards in the discard pile are 
103 
 
viewable by any player provided no effects are resolving. The discard pile must be in a single 
pile, so only one card is visible on top of the pile. The discard pile cannot be fanned out so 
multiple cards are visible when the discard pile cannot be viewed. 
 
Dominant 
 
A lamb or grim reaper illustration located in the icon box identifies a Dominant. All 
Dominants are unique. All abilities on Dominants cannot be negated. A Dominant can be 
played at any time on the active player’s turn regardless of initiative provided no effects are 
resolving. 
 
Dominants are discarded after they are played, unless their ability states otherwise. 
Dominants on the playing surface are discarded when their ability ends. 
 
The priority to play a Dominant is laid out under Action Priority. 
 
Draw Phase 
 
The Draw Phase is the first phase of a player’s turn, preceding the Upkeep Phase. A player 
must draw three cards from the top of their deck during their Draw Phase. Each Lost Soul 
drawn must be put in that player’s Land of Bondage and a new card is drawn to replace it, 
until three cards except Lost Souls have been drawn. After the three cards have been drawn, 
the player may reveal any number of star cards drawn to activate those star abilities, then the 
special ability of any Lost Souls drawn activate. If no cards are left in a player’s deck, the 
game continues using the cards that player has. 
 
Draw Pile 
 
See Deck. 
 
Dual-Alignment 
 
Dual-alignment cards have two different alignments at face value. Dual-alignment cards are 
also dual icon cards. 
 
If one of the alignments of a dual-alignment card is neutral, the card counts as the other 
alignment for deck building. If a dual-alignment card is both good and evil, it counts as 
neutral for deck building. 
 
Dual Icon 
 
Dual icon cards have two identities, which are associated with separate card icons. The icons 
can be different icons in the same icon box, or in separate icon boxes (they may be the same 
or different icons). A dual icon card may indicate that the face value is one identity with a 
trigger or ability to change to the other identity, or it may be both identities at face value and 
only becomes one identity when put on the playing surface. 
104 
 
 
While at face value, a dual icon card can be targeted by a face value identity that meets the 
requirements of the targeting ability or as a dual icon card. If there is an exception in the 
targeting ability, the exception excludes cards before targeting either identity. Once put on 
the playing surface, a dual icon card can only be targeted by the active identity or as a dual 
icon card. Targeting a card as a dual icon card can be in general or the name of a dual icon 
card with its identities (such as City, Covenant or Curse), and can use all or part of either or 
both identities. 
 
Duplicate Card 
 
No player may control duplicates of a unique character or cause them to fight each other. 
This includes unique characters in play, in battle, in a side battle, face down, or in a set-aside 
area. 
 
Players are restricted from performing abilities or game actions that would result in a player 
controlling multiple copies of the same unique card. If a player does end up controlling 
multiple copies of a unique card, all copies of that card except the original copy are discarded 
regardless of protect or immune abilities. 
 
Note: Redeemed characters and captured characters are not treated the same as characters 
and thus do not affect these rules. 
 
Unique character cards with the same card title and the same card icon are considered 
duplicates for deck building purposes. Some character cards have different card titles, but are 
the same unique character, and are also considered duplicates for deck building purposes. 
The list of characters with different card titles can be found in ORDIR under “Duplicate 
Card”. A player may only control one of the same unique character on the playing surface at 
any time. 
 
If an ability or modifier references a character by name (except when referencing the card it 
is on, as described in targeting), it can be applied to any character that meets at least one the 
following criteria: 
•    The character has the referenced name as the full card title 
•    The character includes the entirety of the referenced name in the card title and represents 
a person or being with the referenced name 
•    The character is the same character as any characters that satisfy either bullet above 
 
All Artifact, Dominant and Fortress cards are considered unique. A player may control only 
one of these at any time. Covenants and Curses are unique when played as Artifacts and 
generic at face value or when played as Enhancements. However, unique Artifact, Covenant, 
and Curse cards can be duplicated face down in the Artifact pile. Cities when used as a 
Fortress are unique, but a player may control multiple versions of a City, if no more than one 
version is a Fortress. 
 
105 
 
During Battle 
 
During battle is any time that a battle is happening, regardless of the card’s owner’s 
participation in that battle. 
 
E 
 
Enhancement 
 
Enhancements have numbers and/or special abilities that affect game play. Good 
Enhancements have a Bible icon and are used by Heroes. Evil Enhancements have a skull 
icon and are used by Evil Characters. An Enhancement must be played on or equipped to a 
character that can use the Enhancement, usually by matching one of the character’s brigades. 
 
Enhancements are generally played in the Battle Phase. However, territory class 
Enhancements and Enhancements with heal or set-aside abilities can be played outside of 
battle. Weapon class Enhancements can be equipped outside of battle. 
 
Numbers on an Enhancement support the character that used it, but do not change the 
numbers of the character. Negative numbers do not decrease the character’s numbers, and the 
check for 0 or less toughness that could result in discard does not happen until battle 
resolution. 
 
End of Battle 
 
See After Battle. 
 
Enters Battle 
 
A character enters battle when they move into the Field of Battle from another location. A 
character moving between battles within the Field of Battle has not entered battle an 
additional time. A character can only enter the Field of Battle to join the current battle. A 
character cannot enter an empty Field of Battle unless it is controlled by the active player. 
 
A unique character can only enter the Field of Battle once per turn. If the ability that moved a 
unique character into battle is negated, the character is not considered to have entered battle 
that turn and can enter battle, but its ability cannot activate unless it was previously negated 
that turn. 
 
A generic character can enter the Field of Battle multiple times per turn. 
 
Evil Card 
 
106 
 
When an ability, modifier or deck building rule refers to an evil card it means Evil Character 
(dragon icon), evil Enhancement (skull icon), evil Dominant (reaper icon), or evil Fortress 
(Fortress with dark rainbow colors). 
 
Evil Character 
 
Evil Characters are cards with a dragon in the icon box. Evil Characters block rescue 
attempts and battle challenges. 
 
Experience Credit 
 
This is an optional rule, where if a character successfully rescues or successfully blocks, the 
character increases 1/1. In this way a character goes stronger with experience. NOTE: Type 
II Tournament Categories are always played under the Experience Credit rule. 
 
If a rescue attempt is successful mid-battle, Experience Credit is earned at that point. 
 
F 
 
Face Down 
 
Face down cards are cards in territories, battle, and set-aside areas that are face down either 
due to an ability, or are inactive Artifacts in an Artifact pile. Face down cards have no 
numbers, brigade, titles, identifiers or references while they are face down. The only known 
attribute of a face down card is the card type. When a face down card enters battle, it is 
immediately flipped face up, unless otherwise specified by the ability that flipped it face 
down. Special rules about targeting face down cards are described in Targeting. 
 
Face Value 
 
Face value refers only to what is printed on the card. This includes the values listed in the 
icon box and any other adjustments to those values printed on the card (e.g., Greater Worth 
or Variable Value). It does not include regular or weapon class Enhancements, experience 
credit, or set-aside bonuses. 
 
A card is at face value while in hand, deck, discard pile, banish pile or Reserve. The face 
value of a card is based on the identity (or identities) that it can be initially put on the playing 
surface as. 
 
Failed Block 
 
See Block. 
 
107 
 
Failed Rescue Attempt 
 
See Rescue Attempt. 
 
Field of Battle 
 
The Field of Battle is the area within the Field of Play where characters battle each other. 
 
Field of Play 
 
The Field of Play is one of the locations on the playing surface. Areas of the Field of Play 
include the Field of Battle, territory, Artifact piles, and Land of Bondage. The Field of Play 
does not include the decks, discard piles, banish piles, Reserves, set-aside areas, Lands of 
Redemption and the players’ hands. 
 
Fortress 
 
Fortresses, like Sites, represent physical or spiritual locations or structures in the Bible. They 
are denoted by the Fortress icon, which looks like a type of castle, and they may be good or 
evil depending on the background color (light rainbow colors signify a good Fortress, dark 
rainbow colors signify an evil Fortress). Fortresses have no brigades. While Fortresses have 
rainbow colors on the card, that is just to show the alignment. 
 
You play a Fortress by putting it in your territory (or set-aside area if that is specified on the 
Fortress). See duration for how long abilities on Fortresses last. Many, but not all, Fortresses 
allow you to hold cards in that Fortress according to the abilities on the Fortress. 
 
G 
 
Generic Card 
 
Generic characters represent non-specific groups or characters in the Bible or Church 
History. All characters are either unique or generic. A list of criteria for unique characters is 
found in Unique Card; all characters that do not meet those criteria are generic. All 
Enhancements, Lost Souls, and Sites are considered generic. Cities used as Sites are also 
considered generic. A player may control as many versions of each generic card as they 
would like. Special rules about generic characters entering battle are described in Enters 
Battle. 
 
The list of generic characters can be found in ORDIR under “Generic Character”. 
 
Gold Brigade 
 
There are two gold brigades, one good and one evil. 
108 
 
 
(Good) 
 
Gold is the material of the New Jerusalem. 
 
“And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city was pure gold, 
like unto clear glass.” – Revelation 21:18 
 
(Evil) 
 
Gold is commonly used in making graven images in the worship of idols. 
 
“Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had 
given thee, and madest to thyself images of men, and didst commit whoredom 
with them,” – Ezekiel 16:17 
 
NOTE: Cards from the Limited Edition series look yellow or pale green instead of gold. 
Treat as the same brigade. 
 
Good Card 
 
When an ability, modifier or deck building rule refers to a good card it means Hero (cross 
icon), good Enhancement (Bible icon), good Dominant (lamb icon), or good Fortress 
(Fortress with bright rainbow colors). 
 
Gray Brigade 
 
Gray describes people that are neither hot, nor cold. 
 
“I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold 
or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will 
spue thee out of my mouth.” – Revelation 3:15-16 
 
Green Brigade 
 
Green is descriptive of spiritual life. 
 
“But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of 
God for ever and ever.” – Psalm 52:8 
 
H 
 
Hand 
 
109 
 
A player’s hand is where a player holds all the cards that are not in their deck, Reserve, 
discard pile or banish pile but have not been played. Players put cards from their hand on the 
playing surface to play them. By the end of each of their Discard Phases, a player must 
reduce their hand size to a maximum of 8 cards, unless modified by a Change Hand Size 
effect. 
 
At no time may the cards in a player’s hand exceed 16. If an ability puts cards in a hand 
(such as draw or bounce), the player carrying out the ability is restricted from selecting more 
targets than can be moved into each hand. 
 
If a player attempts to carry out an action required by an ability or game rule on one or more 
cards in their hand but cannot complete that action (usually due to a lack of targets), they 
must reveal their hand. If a player attempts to carry out an action required by an ability or 
game rule on one or more cards in their hand and the action has requirements on the target, 
they must reveal the targeted card(s) before performing the action. 
 
If an effect is resolving that causes a player to view another location, their hand is not 
viewable until that effect completes. 
 
Harm 
 
A card is harmed when it is targeted by an ability on a card of opposite alignment (a good 
card targeted by an ability on an evil card, or an evil card targeted by an ability on a good 
card) or when it is targeted by an ability on a neutral card an opponent controls. “Negative 
effect” is sometimes used in place of or in conjunction with harm, but they mean the same 
thing. 
 
Targeting an ability on a card (such as through prevent, interrupt, and negate) does not target 
the card, and therefore is not harm or negative effect. 
 
Has (or Have) 
 
A player “has” the cards that they own and control. See Your and Their. 
 
Hero 
 
Heroes are cards with a cross in the icon box. Heroes represent characters in the Bible who 
follow and serve God and His Plan. The primary goal of Heroes is to rescue Lost Souls. 
 
Holder 
 
When an ability of a card refers to the holder, it means the player that controlled the card 
when the ability activated. If an opponent moves a character you otherwise control to their 
side of battle, they become the holder of that character for the remainder of the battle. 
 
110 
 
I 
 
Icon Box 
 
The icon box is located in the upper left corner of the card. It contains the icon for the card 
type, the brigade of the card, and the numbers (*/*) of the card. A dual icon card may have a 
second icon box in one of the other corners of the card, or two icons in the same icon box. 
 
Identifier 
 
An identifier is an attribute of a card that distinguishes it from other cards of the same type 
based on a descriptive aspect of the person, place, object, or concept that the card represents. 
Identifiers include, but are not limited to: 
 
•    Being type 
•    Gender 
•    Nationality 
•    Occupation 
•    Royal or political position 
•    Reference Testament, Book, Chapter or Verse 
•    Conceptual relationships (typically for Enhancements; involving music, etc.) 
 
Identifiers are also used as explanations for certain parts of cards, such as defining numbers 
or abilities that have an X or a *, explaining how a non-standard card type is used, or to 
explain deck building rules that apply to a card. Abilities in identifiers are active while the 
card with the identifier remains in play or a set-aside area. 
 
Identifiers are especially significant when it comes to characters, as many abilities apply to 
characters based on certain identifiers. Identifiers are assigned to characters using the 
following guidelines: 
 
•    All printed identifiers on character cards are valid regardless of any other guidelines, 
unless errata is given to that card to fix an incorrect identifier. 
•    Unique characters are given references based on evidence from the Bible, Church 
History, or concepts from the Angel Wars series. 
•    Singular generic characters, that is, generic characters that represent a single person or 
being, receive identifiers that the reference verse applies to that generic person 
specifically. If it is uncertain from the verse whether that person could be given an 
identifier, then that identifier does not apply. 
•    Plural generic characters, that is, generic characters that represent a group of people or 
beings, receive all identifiers that can apply to any members of that group based on 
evidence from the Bible, Church History, or concepts from the Angel Wars series. 
•    When determining whether a character belongs to a particular civilization, there must be 
evidence to point to the origin of that character. Being born in a particular city or region 
111 
 
is not normally sufficient to give a civilization identifier. Unless a character is a patriarch 
of a Nation their descendants are not inherently the same culture or civilization. 
Generally, characters are given identifiers for civilizations that they were born into, 
explicitly granted citizenship for, or for which there is explicit mention of their inclusion 
as a member of that civilization. Women are generally also given the civilization 
identifier of their husband, and children are generally given the civilization identifier of 
their father. 
•    All identifier determinations are made on a character-to-character basis. 
 
In Play 
 
“In play” means within the Field of Play. Cards that are considered in play include cards in 
territories and cards in any main battle or side battle that hasn’t been set aside by an ability. 
Many effects that don’t specify where their targets must be located can only target cards in 
play by default. 
 
Initiative 
 
A player with initiative may play the next Enhancement. Initiative is always given to the 
player who is losing the current battle. The losing player cannot pass initiative. If an ability is 
removing a losing player’s character from battle, they may have a specific type of initiative 
called special initiative. 
 
When there is a stalemate or a mutual destruction, the player who did not play the last card in 
battle has initiative, but they must pass initiative if they do not play a card in battle. 
 
L 
 
Land of Bondage 
 
A player’s Land of Bondage is located in that player’s territory, and it is where the Lost 
Souls (including captured characters that are considered Lost Souls) that the player controls 
reside. 
 
Land of Redemption 
 
A player’s Land of Redemption is a location outside of the Field of Play where Lost Souls 
and characters that are rescued by that player go to become Redeemed Souls. 
 
Location 
 
A location is where cards reside. A location exists even if no cards currently reside there. 
Many locations are part of a larger location. The following are the locations in Redemption®: 
 
112 
 
In Play                                                        Out of Play 
Territory                                                            Land of Redemption 
•    Land of Bondage                                  Set-Aside Area 
•    Artifact Pile                                          Hand 
                                                                          Deck 
Field of Battle                                                   Discard Pile 
•    Battle (current)                                     Banish Pile 
                                                                          Reserve 
 
Lone 
 
See Alone. 
 
Lost Soul 
 
Lost Souls represent people who neither follow God or His people (as Heroes do) nor 
directly oppose God or His people (as Evil Characters do) but rather need to be saved from 
sin and death. Lost Souls are always put in the Land of Bondage of the player who controls 
the card, unless an ability says otherwise. See duration for how long abilities on Lost Souls 
last. When a Lost Soul is rescued, it becomes a Redeemed Soul in the rescuing player’s Land 
of Redemption and is no longer a Lost Soul. Special rules about targeting Lost Souls are 
described in Targeting. 
 
M 
 
Matching 
 
When comparing attributes of cards, two cards are matching if there is at least a partial 
match, based on the active identity of cards on the playing surface and the face value of cards 
at face value. If either or both cards has more than one of the compared attribute (such as a 
multi-brigade card), only one of that attribute has to match between the two cards for them to 
be considered matching. 
 
A card cannot be targeted as matching itself. Another copy of the same card can be targeted 
as matching the first one, assuming it meets the criteria to be matching. 
 
Meek 
 
A card is meek if it does not have a special ability. A dual icon card is meek if it has a meek 
identity at face value or if it is played as the meek identity. If a meek card gains an ability, it 
is no longer meek, but will return to being meek when it loses the ability, either through the 
duration ending or the card being return to face value. 
 
113 
 
Tokens and captured characters are meek by default. Characters that have used their limited 
use abilities (such as those that are “once per game”), cards that are being negated, and 
characters that have been converted but the ability cannot activate by rule are not meek. 
 
Mutual Destruction 
 
Mutual destruction is a state of battle or outcome of a battle. It can occur in one of two ways: 
•    The total strength of all characters and Enhancements on each side of the battle is greater 
than or equal to the total toughness of all characters and Enhancements on the opposing 
side. If a rescue attempt ends in this situation, all characters in battle are discarded, and 
the rescue attempt is successful. 
•    An ability removes all characters on both sides of the battle from the battle. If a battle that 
was a rescue ends in this situation, the rescue attempt fails. 
 
N 
 
Name (a Card/Card Type) 
 
Cards are considered to have the same name if adding, removing, or exchanging articles (a, 
an, the), prepositions (with, of, etc.) and punctuation (commas, apostrophes, etc.), or 
changing words between singular or plural, results in the names being identical.  
 
When a special ability directs a player to name a card, they can name any card that exists in 
the game, except a Lost Soul. The named card is only named for the special ability of that 
card, and the ability or modifier that references the named card is considered to use the 
named card in place of “the named [card]”, “that [card]” and similar wording for the rest of 
the special ability. The usage of the named card in the special ability allows the ability or 
modifier to reference cards as described under duplicate card. 
 
Negative Effect 
 
See Harm. 
 
Neutral Card 
 
When an ability, modifier or deck building rule refers to a neutral card it means Artifact 
(grail or serpent icon), Site (pyramid icon), or Lost Soul (no icon). 
 
Not in Battle 
 
Cards “not in battle” are cards found in (1) territories, (2) set-aside areas and (3) Lands of 
Redemption. 
 
114 
 
Numbers 
 
The numbers of a card are the numbers in the icon box. Individually, they are strength (*/) 
and toughness (/*). 
 
O 
 
Occupied 
 
A Site that contains a Lost Soul is considered occupied. A Site remains occupied until the 
Lost Soul is rescued, discarded, or removed by an ability. A Fortress is considered occupied 
if it has a hold effect and a card is currently being held. 
 
On Return 
 
The phrase “on return” is used with some set aside effects and specifies what effect happens 
when the character returns from set-aside area to the Field of Play. 
 
Opponent 
 
An opponent is any other player in the game. However, the word opponent can be specific or 
general. Normally, when a single opponent is indicated, the player may select any other 
player and target them or their cards. “Opponents’” or “each opponent” refers to all other 
players in the game. 
 
During the Battle Phase, however, the specific “opponent”, “your opponent’”, or 
“opponent’s” means the other player engaging you in battle. The general “an opponent”, 
“any opponent”, or “one opponent” can still be selected by the player. 
 
Several cards in Redemption® refer to “opponent’s cards” (e.g., opponent’s Heroes). For a 
card to be considered an “opponent’s card”, that player must be the owner of the card as well 
as have control of the card. An “opponent’s” ability is an ability on an “opponent’s” card. 
 
Opposed and Opposing 
 
A character is opposed if there is a character on the other side of the battle. All cards on one 
side of a battle are opposing all cards on the other side of the battle. 
 
Orange Brigade 
 
Orange is descriptive of the fire of hell. 
 
115 
 
“And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the 
kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire: 
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.” – Mark 9:47-48 
 
“And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, 
where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and 
night for ever and ever.” – Revelation 20:10 
 
Out of Play 
 
“Out of play” means outside the Field of Play. Cards that are considered out of play include 
cards in hands, decks, Reserves, discard piles, banish piles, set-aside areas and Lands of 
Redemption. 
 
Owner 
 
When a reference is made to the owner of a card, it means the player from whose deck or 
Reserve the card originated. Changing control of a card does not change the ownership of 
that card. 
 
P 
 
Pale Green Brigade 
 
Pale green is descriptive of death. 
 
“And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was 
Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the 
fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, 
and with the beasts of the earth.” – Revelation 6:8 
 
The KJV uses the word “pale”. The actual word used by John here was the Greek word 
chloros or greenish from the Greek word chloe or green. 
 
NOTE: Cards from the Limited Edition series look bright green instead of pale green. Treat 
as the same brigade. 
 
Pass 
 
During a mutual destruction or stalemate, a player with initiative may pass. This transfers 
initiative to the other player involved in the battle. If initiative passes three times and no 
Enhancement is played, then the battle moves to battle resolution. 
 
116 
 
Permanent Control 
 
If a player has permanent control of a card, then they can treat that card as if it came from 
their deck. By default, a player has permanent control of all cards on the playing surface that 
they own. A player also has permanent control of all cards in their hand. A player may obtain 
permanent control of a card controlled by another player with a take or give effect that targets 
that card, or by using an exchange effect that exchanges a card that player controls with a 
card another player controls. If a player has control of a card on the playing surface 
(including Land of Redemption and set-aside area) and they do not have temporary control of 
the card, they have permanent control of the card. See Control. 
 
Permanent Controller List 
 
While a card is under the permanent control of any player, it maintains a list of the players 
that have had permanent control, as well as the effect that gave that player permanent control. 
The first entry is always the owner, even if it was initially under the permanent control of 
another player. If an effect changes permanent control to a new controller (as opposed to 
reverting to a previous controller), it adds an entry to the end of the list. If the effect has a 
duration, when the duration ends, the corresponding entry is removed, and if it was the entry 
at the end of the list permanent control reverts to the player in the entry currently at the end 
of the list. If an effect specifically reverts permanent control to a previous controller, it 
reverts to the indicated entry and removes entries after it. If an effect specifically reverts 
permanent control to the owner, the list reverts to the first entry and removes all other entries. 
 
Phase 
 
A phase is a division within a turn, with different actions being able to be performed in each 
phase. There are 5 phase in a turn - Draw Phase, Upkeep Phase, Preparation Phase, Battle 
Phase and Discard Phase. 
 
If a card uses “Each [type of phase]”, it means “Each of your [type of phase]”. 
 
Play 
 
A card is considered “played” if it meets these criteria: 
•    An Enhancement is played when it is used by a character, unless it is being used by a 
character in battle because the previous character to use it has been removed from battle. 
•    A character or rainbow Site is played by putting it in battle or a territory. 
•    A token is played when it is created. 
•    A card of any other card type is played by putting it face up in battle, a territory, or a set-
aside area from a hand, a deck, a Reserve, a banish pile, an Artifact pile or a discard pile 
due to an ability or game action. 
 
Playing a card activates its special ability, unless it is a non-territory class character or 
rainbow Site being put in territory. 
 
117 
 
Note: Play can be an ability, but is more broadly a game action. An ability is only considered 
a play ability when it contains the word play, and is not referring to the Field of Play. Any 
other action or ability that results in a card being played is not a play ability, but is an 
example of a play game action. For example, “You may play an Enhancement” is a play 
ability, while “You may band a Hero into battle from hand” is not a play ability, since it does 
not contain the word play, even though the character banded from hand is considered to have 
been played by the player who used the ability. 
 
Played Against 
 
A card is played against the opposing characters in battle. It is not the targets of the effects of 
the abilities on the card. If a card is played outside of battle or while there are no opposing 
characters in battle, it is not played against anything. 
 
Played By 
 
A card is played by a player when that player plays it due to an ability or a game action. 
When an Enhancement is played by a player, it is also used by a character. 
 
Player 
 
A player is anyone who is playing the game. If an ability says “player”, as in “Player must do 
X” then it refers to the person who activated the ability. If an ability says “a player” or “any 
player” then it can refer to any person playing the game. 
 
Playing Surface 
 
The playing surface is where the game is taking place. This is sometimes called the “board”.  
 
The playing surface includes all cards in play, set-aside areas and Lands of Redemption. The 
playing surface does not include the decks, discard piles, banish piles, Reserves and the 
players’ hands. 
 
Pre-Game Phase 
 
The pre-game phase encompasses the events that occur during the opening draw at the 
beginning of the game, before the first turn begins. Here is the order to follow: 
1.   Each player draws their opening of 8 cards and replaces any Lost Souls. A random 
method (coin flip, dice roll, etc.) is used to determine which player will select the player 
who takes the first turn. The winner of the random method selects a player to take the 
first turn, and that player goes first for each step of the Pre-Game Phase as well. 
2.   After selecting a player to take the first turn, BEFORE the Lost Souls abilities activate, 
starting with the selected player and continuing clockwise until each player has had an 
opportunity, players may reveal any number of star cards from their hand to use the star 
ability. 
3.   After each player has used any star abilities they want to activate, starting with the 
118 
 
selected player and continuing clockwise until each player activates the Lost Souls they 
control, players activate the abilities on the Lost Souls they control. 
4.   After all Lost Souls have been activated, the selected player begins the first turn. 
 
Dominants cannot be played and manually triggered effects cannot be used during the Pre-
Game Phase. Triggered effects can be used during the Pre-Game Phase. The Pre-Game Phase 
moves directly to the first player’s Draw Phase. 
 
Preparation Phase 
 
The Preparation Phase is the third phase of a player’s turn, succeeding the Upkeep Phase and 
preceding the Battle Phase. During the Preparation Phase, the player can: 
•    Put a character in territory 
•    Equip a weapon class Enhancement to a warrior class character in territory 
•    Put a Site in territory 
•    Put a Lost Soul into a Site 
•    Play a Fortress (in territory unless otherwise specified on the card) 
•    Add or remove cards from a Fortress depending on the hold ability of the Fortress 
•    Put an Artifact face down in the Artifact pile 
•    Activate an Artifact on your Artifact pile (limit once per turn) 
•    Activate an Artifact in a location other than your Artifact pile, depending on holds or 
activate an Artifact abilities (limit once per turn for each available Artifact slot) 
•    Reactivate in the same location, move location, or swap location of Artifacts that were 
active from a previous turn (counts towards the activation limit for each of those 
locations this turn) 
•    Deactivate an active Artifact you control that was not activated by a Preparation Phase 
action this turn by returning it to your Artifact pile face down 
•    Play an Enhancement with a set-aside or heal ability, or that is territory class (limit 1 
territory class Enhancement played via game rule each turn) 
•    Return a card in set-aside area 
All these actions are repeatable (unless a limit is specified) and can be performed in any 
order. 
 
Purple Brigade 
 
Purple is descriptive of royalty. 
 
“And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and 
seven hundred shekels of gold; beside ornaments, and collars, and purple 
raiment that was on the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about 
their camels’ necks.” – Judges 8:26 
 
Put (in a Location or Site) 
 
119 
 
A card is put in a location or Site when it moves from outside of that location or Site into that 
location or Site.  
 
R 
 
Random 
 
Several cards in Redemption® require a player to select a random card. Prior to selecting a 
card from the specified location all cards in that location must first be shuffled regardless of 
protection or restriction. 
 
Red Brigade 
 
Red is descriptive of military might. 
 
“The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the 
chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation, and the fir 
trees shall be terribly shaken.” – Nahum 2:3 
 
Redeemed Soul 
 
Redeemed Souls are cards that have been rescued and are in the Land of Redemption. Lost 
Souls, captured humans being treated as Lost Souls or humans that are rescued are put in the 
Land of Redemption, where they become Redeemed Souls and are no longer Lost Souls. 
 
Redeemed Souls do not have any identifiers or brigades. 
 
Removed from Battle 
 
A character is removed from battle when they move from the Field of Battle to another 
location. A character moving between battles within the Field of Battle has not been removed 
from battle. A character is removed from battle by an ability if the ability directly moves 
them to a new location, or the ability triggers a game rule that moves them to a new location. 
A character is not removed from battle if the ability that moved them into battle is negated, as 
they are not considered to have been in battle. 
 
Rescue 
 
A rescue frees a Lost Soul (or captured human being treated as a Lost Soul) being held 
prisoner in the Land of Bondage and moves it to a Land of Redemption. Some cards also 
allow humans to be rescued. 
 
Rescue Attempt 
 
120 
 
A rescue attempt is the effort to recover a Lost Soul from the Land of Bondage by battle. A 
rescue attempt battle is initiated when a Hero is put in the Field of Battle. The battle is 
considered a rescue attempt if a Hero has access to a Lost Soul at any point in the battle. A 
player is allowed one rescue attempt per turn unless a card states otherwise. However, once a 
player has made a successful rescue attempt, they are restricted from attacking any player 
until each other player has had a turn. 
 
If a rescue attempt is successful, one or more cards (usually a Lost Soul) are moved to the 
rescuer’s Land of Redemption or the rescue is insteaded. A rescue attempt is successful if the 
Hero(es) win the battle and have access to a Lost Soul, or if a card played in battle causes 
either result of a successful rescue to occur. 
 
If a rescue attempt becomes successful in the middle of the battle, it continues as a battle 
challenge and no more Lost Souls can be rescued by cards played in battle for the remainder 
of the battle, including during battle resolution. Effects and game rules that trigger on a 
successful rescue attempt to resolve at this point. Effects and game rules that trigger after a 
successful rescue attempt to resolve as usual during battle resolution. 
 
A rescue attempt has failed if at any point during the battle it was a rescue attempt and the 
rescue attempt is not successful. 
 
Rescuer 
 
When a Lost Soul refers to the rescuer, it is referring to the player that rescued it. Other cards 
that refer to the rescuer are referring to the rescuing player. 
 
Rescuer’s Choice 
 
This is an optional rule, where during battle resolution, if the rescue attempt was successful, 
the attacking player selects the Lost Soul to be surrendered instead of the defending player. 
NOTE: Type II Tournament Categories are always played under the Rescuer’s Choice rule. 
 
Rescuing 
 
A Hero is a rescuing Hero if it is currently involved in a rescue attempt, regardless of 
whether it has access to a Lost Soul. All Heroes that are in battle during battle resolution of a 
successful rescue attempt are rescuing Heroes. A player is rescuing if they control a rescuing 
Hero. 
 
Reserve 
 
The Reserve is a pile of cards that are only a valid target of cards that specifically target the 
Reserve. It is checked in simultaneously with the deck but is not part of the deck. The 
contents of the Reserve are known information for the player that owns the Reserve, and the 
Reserve is viewable by that player provided no effects are resolving. 
 
121 
 
All players are restricted from removing cards from any Reserve until the end of the first 
round of the game. Cards can be added to the Reserve and the Reserve can be looked at (or 
seen via other abilities) during that round. 
 
Round 
 
A round consists of one turn of each player in the game, and is completed when every player 
has taken a turn. 
 
S 
 
Select (a Card or an Attribute) 
 
When a special ability directs a player to select a card, they can select any card on the 
playing surface, except a Lost Soul. The ability or modifier that targets the selected card only 
targets the selected card, not any others that may share the same title. If the special ability 
directs the player to select an attribute (such as a brigade), then the player can select any legal 
value for that attribute. 
 
Set-Aside Area 
 
The set-aside area is a location outside the Field of Play. When a card is set-aside, it is moved 
to the set-aside area of the player with permanent control. Cards that are set-aside typically 
remain in the set-aside area for a specified number of turns, or until a certain condition is 
met. Some Fortresses are set aside immediately when played, and they remain in the set-aside 
area for the remainder of the game unless an ability says otherwise. 
 
Share (an Attribute) 
 
When comparing attributes of cards, two or more cards share an attribute if that attribute is at 
least partially the same across the cards, based on the active identity of cards on the playing 
surface and the face value of cards at face value. If any of the cards has more than one of the 
compared attribute (such as a multi-brigade card), only one of that attribute has to be shared 
between the cards for it to be considered a shared attribute. 
 
Silver Brigade 
 
Silver is descriptive of God’s word. 
 
“The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, 
Purified seven times.” – Psalm 12:6 
 
Site 
 
122 
 
Sites represent locations mentioned in the Bible. These cards are put in each player’s territory 
within the Field of Play. Sites remain in play until they are removed by an ability. 
 
Sites are identified by pyramids in the icon box. Rainbow Sites are a special class of Sites, 
denoted by the rainbow-colored icon box. Abilities on Sites (except rainbow Sites) activate 
when the Site is put in play. Abilities on rainbow Sites activate upon entering battle. See 
duration for how long abilities on Sites last. 
 
The attacking player may add an unoccupied Site to battle from their territory any time they 
control a Hero in battle. A Site in battle grants the Hero(es) in battle access to any Lost Soul 
in a Site of matching brigade. 
 
Special Initiative 
 
When a player is controlling character(s) in battle and a completing effect of an ability used 
by an opponent, or a game rule that has been triggered by an effect of an ability used by an 
opponent, would leave that player with no character in battle when the effect has completed, 
they have Special Initiative. 
 
When this occurs, suspend the effect causing the removal and additional abilities or effects 
waiting to activate (currently active ongoing abilities remain active). The player controlling 
the character(s) being removed has the opportunity to play an Enhancement that will 
interrupt or negate both the effect causing the removal (or that triggered the corresponding 
game rule) and the ability containing that effect. If the card with the removing effect was 
already removed from play due to one of its effects, it may still be targeted during Special 
Initiative as if it had not removed itself from play. 
 
If an active effect (such as prevent or toss) would stop the interrupt or negate effect on the 
Enhancement from activating, the Enhancement cannot be played during Special Initiative. 
 
If the interrupt or negate effect on the Enhancement played during Special Initiative is 
negated or otherwise undone (such as by an instead), that does trigger a separate instance of 
Special Initiative. 
 
If the removing effect is interrupted but the paired effects of the interrupt do not stop it from 
reactivating, the removing effect completes and there is not another instance of Special 
Initiative. If the paired effects of the interrupt did stop the removing effect from reactivating, 
but the paired effects are later negated, the reactivation of the removing effect does not 
trigger another instance of Special Initiative. 
 
If there is an ability with an instead modifier that would replace the removing effect, Special 
Initiative happens before the ability with the instead modifier. 
 
Stalemate 
 
Stalemate is a state of battle or outcome of a battle. It can occur in one of three ways: 
123 
 
•    The total strength of all characters and Enhancements on each side of the battle is less 
than the total toughness of all characters and Enhancements on the opposing side. 
•    Protect, ignore or immune effects cause both sides of a battle to have less effective 
strength than the effective toughness of the opposing side. 
•    An ability ends the battle as a stalemate. 
 
Star Icon 
 
A star icon (represented by the Star of David) is present in the special ability box on some 
cards and denotes the star ability of that card. If a card is drawn by game rule (in the opening 
hand or the draw 3 at the start of a turn), after replacing any Lost Souls, you may elect to 
activate any star abilities on cards from that draw by revealing the star cards you wish to use 
and carrying out the star abilities in an order of your choice. Star abilities happen before 
activating the Lost Soul abilities from that draw. 
 
Cards with a star ability are star cards. Star abilities can target the card they are on in the 
location the star ability was activated as well as the default location for any effect of the star 
ability. If a star card has multiple identities, the star ability applies to the entire card, not just 
one identity. 
 
The interaction between a star ability and a unity condition is described in Unity. 
 
Strength 
 
A card’s strength represents how well a card can inflict damage on opposing cards. The first 
number in the icon box of every card indicates the strength (*/). 
 
Successful Block 
 
See Block. 
 
Successful in Battle 
 
A character is successful in battle if they participate in a successful block, successful rescue 
attempt or successful battle challenge. 
 
Successful Rescue Attempt 
 
See Rescue Attempt. 
 
Surviving Character 
 
A surviving character refers to any character that is still in battle after step 4 of Battle 
Resolution. 
 
124 
 
T 
 
Target 
 
In Redemption®, the target(s) of an effect are the card(s), abilities, or player(s) that the effect 
performs the action on. Information on how targeting happens is described in Targeting. 
 
Taunting 
 
An Evil Character is taunting if it is attacking in a battle that began as a taunt battle 
challenge. 
 
Teal Brigade 
 
Teal is descriptive of priests. 
 
“And you shall put settings of stones in it, four rows of stones: The first row 
shall be a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald; this shall be the first row; the 
second row shall be a turquoise, a sapphire, and a diamond; the third row, a 
jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst; and the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a 
jasper. They shall be set in gold settings.” – Exodus 28:17-21 
 
Teal is a greenish shade of blue, similar to turquoise. The priestly breastplate, worn by the 
high priest, contained 12 precious stones, one of which was turquoise. The turquoise stone 
was in the second of four rows. 
 
Temporary Control 
 
A player has temporary control of a card when they are able to use that card as one of their 
own but do not have permanent control of the card. A player may obtain temporary control of 
a card permanently controlled by another player with an effect that moves the card onto their 
side of battle. A player can only have temporary control of cards in battle they do not 
permanently control. See Control. 
 
Territory 
 
Each player controls an area in the Field of Play referred to as their territory. A player’s 
territory is where they can put their Artifacts (the Artifact Pile is in territory), characters, 
Fortresses, and Sites. The player’s Land of Bondage, where they keep Lost Souls they 
control, is also in the territory. 
 
Territory Class Character 
 
125 
 
A territory class character is a special kind of character distinguished by a tan icon with a tent 
and palm trees below the icon box. The abilities on a territory class character activate each 
time they are put in a territory in addition to the standard activation on entering battle. 
Territory class character abilities that are active outside of battle are active while the 
character remains in the territory. 
 
Territory Class Enhancement 
 
A territory class Enhancement is a special kind of Enhancement distinguished by a tan icon 
with a tent and palm trees below the icon box. A player may play one territory class 
Enhancement on a character they control in territory during their turn, in their Preparation or 
Discard Phase. Territory class Enhancements played in territory are discarded when their 
abilities are complete, unless otherwise specified. 
 
Their 
 
Several cards in Redemption® identify a player and refer to cards that are “their” cards (e.g., 
their Enhancements, their Evil Character). For a card to be considered “their” card, they must 
be the owner of the card as well as have control of the card. “Their” ability is an ability on 
“their” card. 
 
Token 
 
A token is a generic representation of a card type. A token is treated like any other card of 
that type. If a token is moved to a hand, deck, discard pile, banish pile or Reserve, it ceases to 
exist. Tokens are meek unless they are created having an ability or they gain an ability. 
 
When a token is created in a location, it is put in that location. 
 
Toughness 
 
A card’s toughness represents how well the card is able to withstand opposing strength. The 
second number in the icon box of every card indicates the toughness (/*). 
 
If a character has a toughness of 0 or less, such as a dynamic toughness (X) that is 0 or by a 
decrease ability, the character is discarded. 
 
Turn 
 
A turn begins with the Draw Phase and progresses through the Upkeep Phase, Preparation 
Phase and Battle Phase before ending with the Discard Phase. A player announces they are 
finished at the end of their turn. 
 
“This turn” means “the current turn”, even if it was played on a different turn. Cards that say 
“per turn” or “for X turns” mean “for each of your turns” or “for X of your turns”. Turns are 
counted for the player that controls the target of the ability, not the player that controls the 
126 
 
ability. If an ability targets cards from multiple players, turns are counted separately for each 
player. 
 
U 
 
Unique Card 
 
Many cards have the identifier unique. A character is unique if it meets any of the following 
criteria. If a character does not meet any of the following criteria, the character is considered 
generic for all gameplay and deckbuilding rules: 
1.   The card has the “Unique” identifier, or has been given errata to make it unique. 
2.   The card title is a name or names of specific person(s) or being(s). 
3.   The card title contains the name or names of person(s) or being(s) as a reference point to 
represent a) a familial relationship, or b) a relationship to a quantity of persons or beings 
specified in the card title. A relationship to a single person is specified by the card title 
being singular. 
4.   The card title begins with “The”. 
5.   The card represents a supernatural leader or ruler of an army or realm (physical or 
spiritual). 
6.   A reprinted version of the card is unique per any of the above definitions. 
 
All Dominants, Fortresses and Artifacts are considered unique. Curses and Covenants when 
used as an Artifact are considered unique. Cities when used as a Fortress are considered 
unique. Players may only control one of each unique card in their territory, set-aside area, or 
their side of battle. Different cards that represent the same character are also considered 
unique with each other, even if aspects such as the title, brigade, numbers, special ability, 
card art or reference are different. The list of such characters with different titles can be 
found in ORDIR under “Duplicate Card”. The rules that apply to such character can be found 
under Duplicate Card.  
 
Special rules about unique characters entering battle are described in Enters Battle. 
 
Unity 
 
Unity is an identifier on some cards that appears in the format "Unity: X (Y)" and means "If 
all of your X are Y". If a card has the unity identifier, the special ability and abilities in 
identifiers (such as holds, activate, and taunt) can only activate if the unity condition is met. 
Unity is not met if there is not at least one card that fits in X. If unity ceases to be met after 
an ability is activated, the special ability deactivates and no abilities or modifiers on the card 
can be used until unity is met again. If an ability on a card with unity breaks its own unity, 
the instant abilities on the card will complete before any ongoing abilities deactivate. 
 
Unity does not apply to star abilities. 
 
127 
 
Upkeep Phase 
 
The Upkeep Phase is the second phase of a player’s turn, succeeding the Draw Phase and 
preceding the Preparation Phase. During a player’s Upkeep Phase, a turn is added to the 
count of set-aside, paralyze, poison, disease, or other abilities with a turn count that affect 
cards controlled by them. The active player also activates any abilities they control that 
trigger or can be activated during the Upkeep Phase. 
 
Use an Ability 
 
A player is considered to have used an ability when that ability is completed on a card they 
control. To be considered used, the ability must complete, meaning it cannot be prevented or 
affected by an instead modifier. 
 
An optional ability (usually indicated by “may”) is not considered completed if the 
controlling player elects not to activate it, but it is considered completed if they either elect to 
activate it or if it is not optional. 
 
An ability is considered used if it completes, even if there is no effect or if the effect involves 
other players. 
 
Used By 
 
An Enhancement is used by a character when one of the following criteria is met: 
•    the Enhancement is equipped to a character that enters battle 
•    the Enhancement was placed on the character with a triggered play effect 
•    the Enhancement is moved from a location or being held onto the character unless: 
o   the Enhancement is a weapon being equipped to a character in a territory OR 
o   the Enhancement is being placed by an ability 
•    the Enhancement was used by a character that has been removed from battle and can 
be used by another character on the same side of the battle 
 
When an Enhancement is used by a character, the special ability on it activates unless it is 
being used by a character in battle because the previous character to use it has been removed 
from battle. When an Enhancement is used by a character, that character has the benefit of 
the numbers on the Enhancement. 
 
V 
 
Version 
 
Two unique characters are versions of each other if they represent the same person, either 
because they have the same card name or are listed as duplicate cards. Two generic 
characters are versions of each other if they have the same name. 
128 
 
 
W 
 
Warrior (Class Character) 
 
A warrior class character is a special kind of character marked by a shield icon under the icon 
box. A warrior class character may retain one weapon class Enhancement outside of battle. 
Warrior class characters are often referred to as “warriors”. 
 
Weapon (Class Enhancement) 
 
A weapon class Enhancement is a special kind of Enhancement marked by a shield icon 
under the icon box. Weapon class Enhancements may be retained by warrior class characters 
outside of battle, and may be equipped to a warrior class character during a player’s 
Preparation or Discard Phases. Weapon class Enhancements are often referred to as 
“weapons”. 
 
Equipping a weapon does not necessarily play the weapon and activate its special ability. See 
Equip, Play and Used By. Once equipped, weapons are always treated as equipped cards and 
follow the characters equipped with them to any location they are moved to, except when the 
equipped character is captured or rescued, in which case the weapon is discarded. 
 
During battle, weapons can also be played using the rules of initiative, as regular 
Enhancements. During battle resolution, when Enhancements are normally discarded, if a 
warrior is not equipped with a weapon, the character’s controller may equip a weapon in 
battle to that character. 
 
While in Battle 
 
While in battle means “while this card is in battle”. 
 
White Brigade 
 
White is descriptive of glory and majesty. 
 
“And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the 
earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.” – 
Revelation 20:11 
 
Y 
 
Your 
 
129 
 
Several cards in Redemption® refer to cards that are “your” cards (e.g., your priest, your 
Heroes, your demons, your warrior class Evil Character). For a card to be considered “your” 
card, you must be the owner of the card as well as have control of the card. “Your” ability is 
an ability on “your” card. 
 
